Pathfinder[a]


“Finding purpose is often the result of a full circle journey.”


Chapter 1: Brown


        XD-1791 resembled, from a distance, what most rocky stellar bodies looked like from space; a crater-pocked orb dipped in a paint bucket that contained every variation of the color brown. For good measure, the cosmos made sure to add swathes of different streaks and blotches of brown, in the form of canyons and fissures to give the otherwise mundane canvas some much needed character. Come to think of it, landing on these desolate bowling balls assured any traveler that what they saw from orbit was indeed what they would see once they stepped out of their craft: brown with light or dark streaks but, in high definition. Inside the largest of the planet’s canyons; whose length spanned a generous portion of the northern hemisphere, resembling a large jagged scar across its face. Soren strolled along the miles-wide base of the canyon, a few hundred meters abreast of a towering mile high canyon wall. As he walked, he rolled his shoulders forward, adjusting the pack straps that clipped into the utility vest he wore over his space suit. By second nature he glanced to his right making sure his adjustment had not interfered with a small spinning satellite dish shaped antenna on top of his pack. It’s bowl and center needle anxiously darting from one unseen stimulus to the next. He cocked his helmeted head upwards examining the jagged towering ramparts of the canyon with wisps of dust and particles silently streaming from the higher vantages of the walls. He wondered if the natural walls had been carved by a once active and tumultuous tectonic plate, or by some collision with an unwelcome celestial neighbor. 
 
        Soren trudged to a halt at the base of a natural incline in the rock face, silently judging if it was worth climbing. Seeing that the natural pathway led to a small outcropping overlooking the basin he began the slog up the slope. He reached the top of the path, pausing for breath, and saw that it led into a barren clearing. Guiding himself with his hand along a narrow ridge on the rockwall towards the clearing. He stepped into the open area and saw that it continued further along a thin ridge ending at the small plateau he’d seen from the bottom of the canyon base. Taking deliberate steps to test the ground beneath his feet he examined the wall by brushing his hand along the loose shale while peering for glints of mineral streaks as the dust fell through his gloved fingers. Eons of eroding winds had a habit of exposing any number of valuable minerals hidden within the rock, and as he stepped, his hand loosened some sand along the wall and he felt the sensation of an awkward dense surface underneath his glove. He halted and examined the area noticing a bright chromatic sheen peaking through the dust, he unclipped a small canister off his belt and cleared the dust with small precise spurts of compressed gas. Examining the exposed region he knew he was looking at either a silver or platinum deposit and began walking back towards where he had started, following the vein with his hand and exposing the loose soil covering it, once the silver streak disappeared meaning the vein pinched off, he doubled back towards the outcropping dragging his hand along the wall as he walked exposing a bright silvery streak behind him. The vein again shrunk to a fine point and disappeared as he reached the base of the outcropping. He stepped back with his hands on his hips examining the almost 150 meter long shining scar he’d exposed, admiring the discovery with a subtle nod of accomplishment. He tapped a button on his wrist mounted datapad and the small antenna on his backpack folded up and dropped into the pack. Getting on his knees he unclipped the pack, and laid it out in front of him, unzipping it till it folded open exposing a portable laboratory. Various screens and readouts inside the pack blinked on and a small glass cylindrical tube rose up slowly and split open along the middle with a muted hiss. Soren stepped over the pack and walked over to the vein pulling a small hammer and chisel off his utility belt and gingerly plinked off a few filings of the mineral into his gloved palm. He emptied the filings into a small plastic bowl and placed it into the glass cylinder. The screens in the pack reset displaying in unison the message Analyzing Contents, Please Wait. 


        Soren stood clapping his hands together, clearing the dust off his gloves and strolled over to the edge of the outcropping. He gave the rock a few cautious stomps with his boot making sure that the rock slab wouldn’t fall out from under him and plopped down onto his haunches dangling his feet over the exposed canyon floor below him. He glanced over to his pack making sure that the displayed message hadn't changed before lying down on his back. As Soren stared into the inky black sky above him lazily swinging his dangling feet. His eyes flicked through several pinpricks of light in the sky, and he felt a small pang of sadness as he realized that the feeling he’d had as a child staring into the night sky wondering what treasure each of those stars contained, had been replaced with the dull utilitarian mindset of a seasoned pathfinder, examining which star he hadn’t been to and which ones were even worth traveling to. The bright azure glow of fast burning blue giant stars were false beacons to him now. Outshining their neighbors with the promise of exotic light enriched and mineral filled planets suspended in the soft blue warmth of their star. When in actuality they mostly contained the remnants of barely formed proto-planets and hazardous asteroid belts, waiting in inevitability to be flung out into the cosmos by the brilliant and explosive finale of their parent star's short lifespan.         


        Snapping him out of his melancholy, a melodic chime sounded in Soren’s helmet, indicating that the mobile laboratory had finished analyzing the sample. He clambered onto his elbows and dragged himself up onto the plateau ambling over the open backpack. Setting down on one knee he toggled several knobs on the exposed dashboard and examined the results of the scan: 87% Platinum, 9% Iron, 4% Sperrylite. Pulling the sampling bowl out of the cylinder, a wry smile crept onto Soren’s face as he tossed the small bowl’s contents onto the dirt beside him. He unfastened a collapsed black tube from the open backpack and fastened it to a magnetic pad on the small of his back. Zipping the laboratory back up he heaved it back onto his shoulders fastening the clips and yanking the straps tight pulling it high on his back, once secure the satellite dish popped out of the pack, unfolded, and resumed it’s mysterious scanning. Before clambering back across the ridge he marked the vein’s location on his PDA and began his cautious descent towards the bottom of the canyon. 


        Once descended he skirted the canyon wall until the outcropping he’d been ruminating from was almost directly above him. He pulled the black tube fastened to his back and placed one end of it onto the ground in front of him, giving it a firm shove into the dirt to make sure it could stand on its own. Pressing a small glowing red button on the device triggered three spikes shooting out from its side, securing it into the ground. The end facing him began to slowly rise until it had reached eye level. The button he’d pressed now flashed a dull green and Soren examined the cliffs of the canyon for any loose boulders or faces while strolling to the middle of the canyon basin, putting considerable distance between himself and the tube. Once he was a suitable distance away, he pressed a button on his wrist pad. The glowing green button flashed yellow, and burped out a small puff of dust from the base of the tube. Soren felt a dull thud reverberate through his feet and legs as the tube’s seismic charge detonated into the ground. He immediately shot his gaze back towards the cliffs and began scanning for any loose rock that had been awoken by the seismic charge. 


        He stood in place and cautiously analyzed the cliff faces, and after waiting for some time he was content that they wouldn’t hurl anymore rocks at him as soon as he turned his back. Walking back towards the tube Soren pressed the now glowing yellow button causing it to slowly retract to its previous size. As he waited for the cylinder to shrink, the antenna on his back suddenly stopped spinning and fixed it’s dish directly above him. A blaring klaxon began sounding in Soren’s helmet followed by a red arrow flashing on his HUD pointing up. He turned to face the arrow's direction and saw the outcropping growing several cracks along the base that was holding it to the canyon wall. Soren smacked the shrinking tube onto his back which stuck to the fasteners with a magnetic clunk and began sprinting away from the imminent rocky missile that would be falling towards him. As he ran he felt the ground begin rumbling below him as the rock began its slide towards the ground. As he sprinted he looked for any large boulders that he could take cover behind to avoid the rocky shrapnel that would be flung towards him once the rock fell. Seeing none he threw one last glance behind him and saw the front of the rock crash into the ground and throw out a billowing cloud of dust as it impacted. Just before he was enveloped by the cloud Soren threw himself onto the ground and covered his rear end with his hands as the cloud blackened his view.


        As light began to creep back through the cloud, another klaxon sounded in his helmet with a distorted message reading Multiple Suit Breaches Detected flashing in front of his face, followed by a figurine of him and flashing red points showing where his suit was breached. Soren groaned in exasperation and stood noticing the front of his helmet plate now had a large crack running vertically across the glass. Feeling a slight breeze of air flowing away from his face as it leaked through the crack. He turned and fumbled on his utility belt pulling off a roll of seal-tape and began haphazardly ripping strands off and placing them across the crack. He placed three strands on the crack and saw the red point on the figurine’s helmet dissipate. He dropped the seal-tape on the ground and ripped open the breach kit located on his leg, cursing as he had to angle his damaged helmet's view to look for the streams of air venting from the tears in his suit. He swore at what felt like an eternity of awkwardly angling a limb into view and spewing the coagulant sealant onto each rip. Once each breach was sealed a pleasant chime sang out followed by an All Breaches Sealed message, he angrily shoved the now spent tube of sealant into its pouch and rummaged through the dust to pick up the dust covered seal-tape. 


        Looking back up towards the cliff that released the missile and chuckled to himself over not realizing that more rocky bombs could have decided to restart the agonizing ordeal he’d just gone through. As he trudged, he was halted again by another flashing message in his helmet reading Suit Malfunctions Detected, Maintenance Required. Soren toggled his helmet to dismiss the message, but where the knob was supposed to be his fingers only felt a shallow hole with some wires, he groaned and trudged onwards through the settling dust cloud, with the dull hum of the suit warning, testing his sanity. He’d wished he could say that expeditions like this were one-offs and anomalous, but what may have triggered a life changing event or subsequent book deal for the average galactic traveler, was just another day for Soren. When the galactic Pathfinder’s were first founded to help map the galaxy, generally all one had to do was arrive in a system jot down the star type, how many orbital bodies the system had, and any notable features. Once this was done, the Pathfinder could return to any station and sell the data to any prospective buyer, which were typically tourism or mining corporations. As a result, the image of the idyllic Pathfinder; a rugged and mysterious explorer, who braved the unknown climates and cosmic phenomena of thousands of worlds ended up resembling overweight and ghastly pale long haul traders, never leaving the cockpit and jumping system to system cashing in on what amounted to waypoint data. However, with the advent of improved shipborne navigational scanners, which could be installed on any ship on the cheap, it effectively almost wiped out the Pathfinder mission overnight; relatively speaking of course. Anybody could do the job, and for a while they did. It wasn’t until galactic rescue services became so inundated with emergency pleas for help from amateur explorers, that hefty fines were levied against any non-pathfinder ship that strayed too far from designated trade or travel routes.


        The new generation of Pathfinders, such as Soren, took the orbital scanning of their predecessors to a new level. Instead of just mapping a system and leaving, they would travel to each of these planets and asteroids and collect data from the surface themselves, thus returning the profession to its daring ideal of dashing adventurers permeating the galaxy’s dingy corners, ready to travel to any abyss and veil for the right price. At least, that’s what Soren liked to think, he wasn’t exactly sure what everyone thought of Pathfinders now, considering he spent most of his time so abysmally seperated from society. He had no clue what galactic hubbub there was to listen to, all he knew was that his data still sold and refit stations still operated.  


        Soren crested a small dune, halting at the top to awkwardly scan the horizon of the canyon base through a sliver of his helmet that wasn’t plastered over. His vision settled on a parked rover resembling a steel bubble on tank tracks a few hundred meters down the hill. In an improvised slalom he slid down the slope before slowing to a stop at the rover. Punching a knob on the back of the rover a small compartment whirred open, he unclipped his pack and heaved it into the container. He marched towards the rover’s side hatch and jammed the hatch’s open button with his fist, when it didn’t open he pushed it again several times until it finally responded to a firm slap causing the airlock to open with a whine. Soren clambered onto the tracks, through the now open steel bubble, and crashed into the driver’s seat with an exasperated sigh. The hatch hissed closed behind him followed by a soft bell and a message written in large teal block letters that read ATMOSPHERE STABLE on the front of the cockpit bubble. He unclipped his damaged helmet and haphazardly tossed it across the cockpit to only have it bounce off the cabin wall and smack him in the face. He groaned, cradling his face and stamping his foot in futile anguish, spending a few seconds cursing his self-inflicted misery before finally recovering. He twisted off his gloves and ran a sweaty hand through his long curly brown hair, wincing as he gingerly touched the growing bruise on the side of his face. As he stroked his face, a disembodied female voice emanated from the cabin speakers, 
        “Greetings Soren, I see from your suit’s condition your expedition was more adventurous than planned.” the voice said matter-of-factly. 
He shot an irritated glower towards the rover’s camera port while caressing the side of his face,
        “Yes.”  
Adopting an amused conciliatory tone the voice replied back, 
        “Would you like to see the results of the seismic scan? It’s quite thorough, it seems you selected a nominal spot to place the charge.”
        “Yes.” he replied tersely.
 
        The rover’s cockpit darkened and thousands of small glowing particles materialized in front of him, arranging themselves to resemble what looked like a pie slice of the planet’s surface. A glowing blip appeared on the surface of the planetary cutout and emitted a hazy blue pulse, as the pulse traveled down towards the bottom of the rover’s cabin a network of spidery veins began to appear below the surface of the holographic planet. Soren slowly nodded his head in approval, still cradling his head. Once the pulse dissipated, the disembodied voice quipped,
        “The deposit reaches down quite extensively, roughly 4 kilometers into the planet's surface. I estimate the sale price of this data could exceed over 400,000 credits, well done.”
        Soren grunted as the small planet slice dissipated, and began flipping several switches throughout the rover’s cabin triggering it’s start up sequence. As the vehicle hummed to life, he grasped the rover’s control sticks and maneuvered it towards a cracked sandy clearing in the middle of the basin. After a few moments of silence the voice spoke again, 
        “Soren, I would also like to note that this planet has not been                         previously discovered or surveyed.” 
        “So that means I have naming rights?” not bothering to hide the exhaustion in his voice. 
        “That is correct.”


        Soren pondered the evolution of stellar naming convention. Historically, it had been quite a formal process, where some astronomer sitting in an observatory spent an inordinate amount of time looking at the night sky, searching and scanning the stars. Occasionally, they would spot a star or stellar phenomena that wasn’t there before, or that was otherwise doing anything it could to not behave like the rest of the cosmos. After double and triple checking their discovery, and fighting through several bouts of self doubt; convinced that somehow they had messed something up. The astronomer would then conclude that this behavior was indeed something new and unique, and would then pull out a thesaurus and search for the most arcane and esoteric name to christen the misbehaved object or behavior, like Betelgeuse or Charybdis; usually followed by an equally esoteric series of numbers and letters, adding a symbol from a dead language for good measure. This name was then sent to a council of older and more caffeinated late-night observers where they sat on the name for what seemed like a requisite 100 years, or more commonly, until the original discoverer had died of old age and approved the name, or in unfortunate cases, denied it and gave it the chosen name of another observer that had discovered it 200 years previous but who had happened to be first in line. 


        The advent of faster than light travel, thus presented the difficult and rather obvious problem of large numbers of stellar “stuff” that hadn’t been seen, prompting a deluge of informally named planets and star systems. Soon, the honorable and time honored stellar naming convention was inevitably yanked from its ivory tower and cast into the hands of the hoi polloi. Before long, amateur explorers and pilots had the rather comedic task of navigating asteroid belts such as Fuzzy Wuzzy 32, or in the following interstellar conflicts, warring sides would conduct decisive battles that would later bear historic names such as The Battle of Fellatio-69 or win pyrrhic victories on the winter shores of Untitled-16. Soren had named many planets previously, and contrary to the absurdist norm, he kept his titles rather unassuming. After all, he’d hoped one of his discoveries could serve as a home to settlers one day, and while he found the prospect humorous, he couldn’t bring himself to grant the misfortune of one day naming and meeting a “Fellatiate” from Fellatio-69.


        “Is Brown taken? As a name I mean.” 
        “No... but I’ll remind you that you’re essentially naming the planet it’s own                 color.” the voice replied with audible irritation.
        “Nonsense, Brown is a fine name, I’m sure there are plenty of famous                         scientists named Brown.” 
The voice gave an audible sigh and continued, 
        “Fine, I’ll have to append a randomized numeric sequence to the end of the name due to the fact that the galactic database has approximately 4,697 other stellar bodies bearing a resemblance to the name ‘Brown.’” 
This prompted a mischievous smile creeping onto Soren’s face.
        “Are you returning back to the ship or are there any other falling rocks on the planet requiring your investigation?” the voice continued mockingly. 
Soren chuckled grimly and shook his head as he glanced at the camera mounted in the top right corner of the cockpit. As the rover bounced along the basin floor, Soren toggled the autopilot switch and looked up through the rover’s ceiling viewport at the night sky as he crossed his arms behind his head. 


        He adjusted the cabin seat so that he was gazing through the rover’s ceiling viewport and fixing his gaze on Brown’s north star; he had no idea what the blazing red giant was called but he found it quite appealing, he let his eyes droop and contentedly dozed away as a fitting reward for the day’s work. 


Chapter 2: Faber of Fortune


        Soren awoke to the rover’s electric engine whining as it struggled up a steep desert slope. Rubbing the sleep from his eye, he disengaged the autopilot and nursed the throttle to make sure he didn’t overload the engine. Noting to himself that while he had replacement parts, he’d learned a long time ago that caution and conservation were an explorer's best friend. The slope slowly vanished as the rover crested the hill. Parked in one of the wider sections of the canyon, the workhorse of all of his expeditions, slowly came into view. 


        His ship, Faber of Fortune, resembled a massive off-white long and broad spear head complemented by a maroon trim along it’s centerline and stubby winglets, spanning 60 meters across the beam and 150 meters stem to stern. Contrary to most exploration ships, which were typically small, quick, and had plenty of open viewing ports, Faber was an exception. Almost four times bigger than even the largest exploration cutter, what it lacked in speed it made up for in distance and durability. Where other vessels had the bridge located above or in front of the ship, Faber’s was buried deep in the center, this removed the inherent vulnerability brought on by the possibility of windows breaking, but more importantly to Soren, it saved him a few hours in the day by removing the need to clean all of the windows. As much as Soren would have liked to take credit for the explorative oddity the ship was, Faber was merely a repurposed imperial corvette. All things considered, Faber of Fortune was Melville’s whale with racing stripes, but Soren never really thought a ship named Moby Dick had any ring to it. 


        He drove the rover towards the aft of the ship under the hull, passing the two massive thrusters emanating grey wisps of coolant standing by to blast him off the surface of the planet. Halting under one of two sets of bays located in the ship’s underbelly, one for the rover, and the other for a scout ship that he used when landing was difficult due to terrain, or to get closer to salvage hulks in space. He reached above him toggling a metal switch that caused the control console to fold away from him and glanced above him at the automated arms unfolding to lift the vehicle back into the bowels of the ship. Hearing the hum of the engine subside, Soren unbuckled himself from the seat and lazily kicked the rover's hatch open. Clambering out and patting the dust off his suit he strode across to the decontamination chamber that linked the rover bay to the rest of the ship. 


        The official, and his own, requirement for the chamber was to avoid cross-contaminating the worlds he’d visited with any foreign biota. He’d also seen enough space-based horror sims to know that they all started with some idiot that didn’t want to take a shower. Soren paused in the middle of the chamber and began unbuckling all of his suit’s attachments. He placed his backpack, utility belt and sidearm into a neat line on the floor, as to provide the cleansing UV radiation maximum surface area, Minerva’s cool voice filled the chamber, 
        “Beginning decontamination protocol.” 
        He gave a thumbs up as he fumbled with a wedgie that had manifested in the groin region of his suit. A dull thud sounded and two horizontal light bars flashed on, filling the room with a hazy azure glow. The bars slowly traversed the length of the ceiling and wall, passing over Soren and his equipment, and eradicating any unlucky microbes. A green light blinked above a door in front of him indicating that he was clear of any potential space-borne movie monsters.


        Soren picked up his gear and waddled through the door into the ship’s locker room. Fumbling with the zipper on his neck, he looked up towards the locker room’s microphone and mumbled, 
        “Chopin’s Nocturnes, Opus 9.” 
        As he unzipped the front of the suit a velvety piano crept into the room. His suit now pulled down to his hips he sat down on the bench in the center of the room and struggled with the clips on his knee high boots resolving to lie on his back cursing, as he tried to kick each boot off with the opposite foot. After a veritable eternity, the boots clattered to the deck. After a brief pause, and Soren questioning his own fitness, he pulled off the rest of the suit and laid it out in front of him on the bench. He examined the sealed tears and cuts in the suit silently admiring his emergency handiwork before hastily folding the damaged suit and throwing it into the laundry hatch. He methodically stored his gear in the room’s single locker and plodded towards the shower. As warm recycled water streamed down his body he looked up towards the ceiling,
        “Minerva, can you start the engine sequence? I want to get off this rock as soon as possible.”
        “I thought you liked barren hellscapes?” 
        “Only if they have a gift shop.” he scoffed sarcastically.
        As he rubbed the soap over his body he felt the engine’s start-up sequence vibrate and creep through his feet as they slowly rumbled to life. 


        Soren padded the shower knob off with a knuckle, causing the room to stream warm air from vents located on the surrounding walls spewing his hair outwards to resemble the archetypal mad scientist. He smoothed his hair down and stepped out of the room opening the locker and pulled out a fresh pair of sweatpants and a shirt. He maneuvered his feet into a pair of slippers and sauntered out of the room towards the bridge. As he walked a string of evenly spaced lights, located along the top corners of the walls of the corridor, blinked on. Soren neared one of the lights and a small projection cone produced a shimmer that appeared beside him. After a moment the shimmer materialized into a small transparent cube with lines of illegible symbols and numbers streaming rapidly down the cube’s sides.


        As they walked Minerva’s voice emanated from the cube,
        “” 
They arrived in a semi-circular room adorned with screens broadcasting ship status, planetary scans, and system readouts. The room was illuminated by a band of fluorescent white light which stretched the width of the semi-circle and elicited a soft reflection on the mottled gray interior of the room. In the center was a large, waist high, rectangular block whose area was covered with a grid of transparent glass squares. Soren approached the glass table and placed his hand on a set of grid squares at the right hand corner of the block. The light band across the bridge dimmed and the table’s surface flashed a dull cerulean glow as the glass surface discharged a sea of white pinpricks scattering throughout the room. Soren approached a flashing yellow dot and tapped it with his right index finger. The sea of stars exploded outwards as the room magnified the contents of the selected point of light. A set of two glowing orange bowling ball sized fireballs now settled in the middle of the room silently encircling each other. Orbiting the binary stars were 17 planets of varying size. Soren moseyed towards the seventh planet from the twin suns which had flashing golden halo girdling it. As he approached the planet the golden ring faded away as a readout in large blue letters appeared adjacent to the planet -- 


Name: XD-1791 “Brown” 
Date Discovered: 7 August 2401
Discovered By: Gael, Soren E.S.


        Soren used his hand to rotate the orb slowly from side to side. Once he was finished inspecting the mottled brown surface of the planet “Brown” he nodded his head almost imperceptibly and looked over to Minerva; the Amazon, 
        “So, I think we’re all set here, let’s look at the remaining route.”
 
        Minerva tapped her tablet, causing the floating planets to shrink back into their tiny container of light. The sea of stars materialized briefly as they flooded past him to finally settle into a lazily rotating spiral galaxy over the gray navigation table at the center of the bridge. Minerva tapped a sequence into her tablet, prompting the galaxy to slowly enlarge and magnify a golden path of light starting from Sol; at the bottom center of the galaxy, all the way past the top the farthest spiral arm, to a small star sitting on the edge of the galactic rim. The star had the rather unceremonial name of UDF 2457. Soren inspected the golden band and saw a blinking green dot located a small distance past the median of the line indicating their current location. He crossed his arms and cocked his head, the words almost there echoed in his mind.


        UDF 2457, from what scans had indicated, was unremarkable in that it was a single small red dwarf star with what appeared to be one stellar body orbiting the star at a close proximity. The star was symbolic however, that at roughly 59 million lightyears from Earth it was the farthest known star in the Milky Way, and the system had yet to be reached and mapped by any pathfinder mission, let alone any previous human exploration. However, reaching the system would log his farthest expedition point to date. There was a bounty on systems that served as milestones; marker systems as they were called, rather than the typical mineral or habitability requisites, they served as distance points or tourist spots, and in the case of UDF 2457, points of no return. Soren like most pathfinders had at least three homes: where he was born; Mars, his ship, and whatever planet he wanted to build a habitat on. There were roughly four hundred billion stars in the milky way alone. Now of that number roughly every single one has at least one planet, and 1 in 5 have a planet that could hypothetically support human life. The current population of the local bubble is roughly 27 billion people, so, if for some reason every denizen of the galaxy would want a planet, they would have at least two to choose from. The galaxy was essentially free real estate for anyone that had the means and determination to settle on any one of those planets. 


        Most pathfinders, when they reach retirement age, typically establish a home within a few hundred lightyears of the local bubble, and that planet usually but not always, resembles some sort of Eden, an Earth 2.0 so to speak. Soren had bucked this pathfinder norm by establishing his own and current home on an icy world roughly three thousand lightyears from the bubble. Like “Brown” he’d discovered this planet first and in keeping with his solitary disposition, named it Solum. The planet had no mineral deposits or signs of intelligent life, much less any life, and by all galactic norms it filled all requirements for being classified as a Tomb World; a world that had no intrinsic value regarding any habitable or commercial value. He’d known this as he arrived in the system, and initially it was purely just a transit system; a point of travel that reached the light year distance limitation of his jump drive which required normal space re-entry to stabilize the drive in order to conduct another jump. The system to its benefit, was beautiful, it had three stars, therefore Solum had three suns, a massive and bright Blue Giant, a medium sized orange G-Type star resembling his sun in Sol, and a small White Dwarf. He’d decided to extend his stay in the system turning it into a bourbon infused pit stop. As he ruminated on the observation deck at Faber’s bow, he decided to name the trinary system Existence, the[b][c][d][e][f][g][h][i][j] blue giant; and the youngest, Peperit, the middle orange star Vita and, the eldest, the white dwarf, Mors. Solum’s surface comprised three geographical features: icy plains, icy canyons and icy mountains. However once landing on the planet the intense blue light from Vita transformed the icy white arctic landscape into a brilliant canvas of luminous aquamarine mountains and valleys. The planet's proximity to the three stars allowed for a frigid but breathable nitrogen atmosphere and more importantly to Soren, a constant aurora phenomenon, owing to Solum’s unexplained strong magnetic field. Soren spent the rest of the second expedition searching for any lucrative bounties and bonuses to fund building his proverbial Fortress of Solitude on Solum. 


        As Soren scrutinized the small red dot at the edge of the hovering galaxy in front of him, he hoped that the single orbiting body was so remarkable, in some way, that it would warrant him moving his home to the farthest point of the galaxy and finally establishing himself as the King of Hermits. Minerva had seen him pondering and being quite used to his bouts of rumination had waited for him to come to, 
        “I’ll remind you that the last thirty two systems we’ve traveled through are near the galactic core, thereby the average distance between them is around thirteen lightyears, so we’ve traveled through quite a few systems but, they’ve been pretty close together.” [k]
Soren, slightly embarrassed that he had to be reminded of this simple mathematical fact, clapped his hands to his side then together, 
        “Right, then we’re all set?”
 
        Minerva gestured with her hand towards his command chair with a face whose expression could only be described as saying “duh.” He slid past the navigation table and plopped down in the command chair placing his left hand on the throttle and right hand on the control stick. The overhead projection lights visualized Minerva gracefully sitting down next to him in the co-pilot chair, her eyes glued to her tablet and only looking up to declare that no foreign objects on the ground would obstruct the ship’s take off. 


        Using his left index finger Soren slowly depressed the vertical take off thruster, briefly enveloping the ship in a brown cloud of dust as it hovered into the air over the billowing cloud. Simultaneously, he slowly pushed the throttle forward while pulling the control stick back towards him, aligning Faber’s trajectory towards the void of space. He pushed the throttle forward all the way to it’s limit as the inertial dampeners prevented him from being violently thrown into his seat as the ship thundered further from the planet’s surface. Thankfully he didn’t have to deal with the tumultuous ship wracking turbulence that planets with atmospheres usually afforded. Faber of Fortune sailed into the night and being content that he was out of the gravitational well of the planet he pulled the throttle back midway to a cruising speed and aligned the bow of the ship towards the destination system, superimposed on the reinforced glass of the bridge. Soren toggled the covered jump drive switch above his head, causing the ship’s engines to emanate a low escalating hum as the drive charged. Directly in front of the ship, the stars seemed to condense and cluster to a central point and Minerva began a countdown from five seconds. 


Five: The light from the central point began to widen into a growing halo of bright blue Cherenkov radiation encircling a pitch black center.
.
Four: The background nebula slowly vanished leaving only the brightest stars struggling to outshine the growing ring.


Three: The remaining stars began to stretch slowly into long rectangular bars of light.


Two: The engine hum culminated in a bridge shaking thump.


One: Tachyon Space.




Chapter 3: Refit


        Tachyon Space, or the discovery and utilization of it, was humanity’s gateway to the stars. As far as paradigm shifts go it stands equal to the Wright Brothers first flight. It not only unlocked the rapid colonization of humanity’s original star system Sol, it did what all innovative and revolutionary travel methods do, and that is make space travel boring. Historically, the original human astronauts were selected and trained from the best and brightest. Conducting hazardous and daring missions of discovery and pioneering. However, the inexorable march of time assured that space would now be open to the masses. Spacecraft went from tool laden scientific vessels, to luxurious and opulent ships for the elite, and finally to the cattle packed spaceliners of today. Cramming as many travelers into a ship and making sure to charge the chattel exorbitant prices for each piece of luggage. 


        T-Space’s discovery, combined with humanity now freely galavanting about the solar system, inevitably exposed man’s most reliable and tiresome attribute: War. As new colonies began to pockmark the habitable stellar bodies of Sol, colonists began to question why they should have to adhere to the laws of the aging and corrupt governments of mother Earth, who at that point had been transformed into a resource depleted, garbage laden shell of its former self. Several colonial wars inevitably played out. New dictatorships, communism’s second rise and predictable fall, colonists attempting to recreate the gilded republics of the Americas, and the exasperating return of countless counterculture movements, that created often doomed communes on moons that usually had clear signs recommending against colonization. All of these conflicts and failed expeditions culminated in the rise of the Solar Imperium, and when humans set their sights on new systems outside of Sol, it evolved into the Galactic Imperium that Soren now served.     


        The way a ship accessed; or more accurately traversed, Tachyon Space; T-Space, involved orienting the ship at the desired location of travel. From there, a ship’s jump drive; powered by harvested ambient dark energy, opened a radiating blue halo, called a Mass-Transfer Ring in front of the vessel. This ring individually converted the mass of the particles comprising the ship from positive to negative mass. As a particle approached zero mass it was sucked through the threshold of the halo into T-Space, a tachyonic mass field that only accepted particles that traveled faster than the speed of light. As this particle has no mass it is accelerated to near instantaneous superluminal speeds as a tachyon, or a particle that travels faster than light. Once the particle nears its destination it passes through a redshifted Reconciliation Gate that ejects a reverted positive mass particle and reconciles the causal nightmare of faster than light travel. These particles are then reassembled into their previous form, but several light years ahead of their previous location. 


        Initial trials of the drive worried some scientists who subscribed to what's known as the teleportation paradox, which states: If an object is disassembled at an atomic level and reassembled somewhere else, is it the same object, and is that object a duplicate of the original which now ceases to exist? However, much to the chagrin of philosophers everywhere, this was quickly overruled partly because no person had ever arrived with a “not all parts included” sign around their neck and reported remembering the entrance and exit from T-Space, but mainly because nobody wanted to go back to the drawing board. 


        The hollowed out asteroid AP - 3170 drifted between two bright blue gas giants, aptly named “God’s Eyes”, trapped in an eternal tug of war between the two planets. The circular hole that acted as the entry and exit point of the refit station located within the rock, was sealed by a bulkhead that opened along the vertical and horizontal axes of the circle. Above the bulkhead was the control port with the words “Ad Astra” stenciled in fading white paint below it. Thirty kilometers from the station in the inky black void, a red point of light materialized and expanded into a blazing red halo. In a silent instant Faber of Fortune shot through the ring and adjusted its course towards the floating refit station. With its cargo ejected, the blazing ring collapsed back into the red point of light that bore it and ceased to exist. Soren yawned to equalize the pressure in his ears and wrinkled his nose in familiar disgust at the ozone smell that permeated the ship that usually followed a jump. Minerva re-materialized sitting in the co-pilot seat next to him, now wearing the form fitting white and black jumpsuit that was standard issue to all pathfinders and her hair now tied into a tight bun behind her head, her data tablet being replaced by an arm mounted display.


        Soren adjusted the trajectory of the ship to align with the station’s position in space. Small thrusters located throughout key points of Faber of Fortune’s hull made up the vacuum maneuvering system; VMS. They burped out small arcs of plasma as they worked in unison to refine the ship’s course towards the drifting asteroid. A small tune chimed throughout the bridge indicating that the trajectory towards the asteroid was nominal. Once they were within fifteen kilometers of the asteroid he keyed the ship’s comms array and opened a channel to hail the station’s control hub, 
        “3170 Refit this is Sierra-Golf 9117 requesting permission to dock...” 
He let go of the button slinking back into his chair as he waited for the reply. A moment later, a crackling sound followed by the archetypal rapid and matter-of-fact voice of a seasoned hub controller filled the room, 
        “Sierra golf ninety one seventeen, this is thirty one seventy control hub, request approved, at seven kilometers slow down your approach to 1-4-7 meters per second and approach docking pad one five, how copy?” 
        Soren repaid the control hub’s brevity with a terse, 
        “Roger, solid” and pulled the throttle back to match the assigned station speed limit. 
        At seven kilometers he toggled the ship’s auto-docking routine and buckled himself into his chair. 


        Due to the station’s constant rotation, the VMS had to activate on one side of the ship in order to match the station’s rotational velocity. Soren typically tried to predict the position of a station’s door when he docked in order to avoid the sudden jerk as the maneuvering thrusters ignited to align the ship. However, he’d timed his position perfectly, therefore the only work the auto-docker had to do was accelerate into the station. The doors to the refit station silently hissed open, resembling the four-beaked maw of the tentacled cephalopods that lurked under Europa’s oceans. Once completely opened, the auto-docker pulsed the engines nudging the ship into the first repressurization chamber. The ambient azure light reflected from the two gas giants disappeared as the maw closed behind the ship. They proceeded to play a game of stop-and-go as they went from pressure lock to pressure lock. The idea behind it being that a ship could be moved into a docking bay faster by moving through a sequence of doors of increasingly normalized pressure. Instead of holding in one chamber, and waiting the ten minutes it took to repressurize causing traffic jams at the gate. Each door they passed through, the rumble of the ship’s engine grew louder as the sound gained a stronger medium. 


        The ship passed through the final door and Soren looked across the flat docking bay, arrayed with landing pads ordered in accordance with ship size. When Soren had first acquired [l][m]Faber of Fortune. He had started his career in the standard issue pathfinder discovery corvette, outfitted as all government craft were, cheap and durable and he’d flown his first expedition with the ship he’d aptly named The Adequate. The wealth of a pathfinder directly correlated to how risk averse a pilot was, if one skirted the local bubble, the price of data was typically quite poor. There are a few hidden gems in the form of water and high density mineral worlds but it was rare. The farther a pathfinder ventures the higher the price of the data. Soren, now typically didn’t start scanning systems until he was at least 1000 lightyears from the bubble. His desire for distance and expeditionary stamina had resulted in him amassing a small fortune upon his return from his first mission. He initially purchased Faber; then named Beast of Burden, from a scrap yard orbiting Ganymede for half the price of his current government issued corvette. She was initially classified as a medium to large class merchant hauler and had spent his fortune from his first expedition to gut and completely retrofit the vessel into one of the foremost exploration vessels in the Pathfinder Fleet. Reclassifying her as a hybrid luxury and exploration frigate (with emphasis on the luxury). Soren spared no expense into making sure that the vessel was as luxurious and accommodating as possible. Faber’s opulence wasn’t entirely without reason however, at 39 he was on average[n][o] one of the more experienced pathfinders in service and if he was to continue charting 9 month to year long expeditions, he might as well do it in comfort. 


        The auto-docker maneuvered the ship towards his assigned pad 15 located in the middle of the last row of large landing pads. He glanced at the viewing ports that surrounded the perimeter of the docking bay and at the station’s crew that scurried through the halls. The ship’s approach slowed before halting and loitering in the air as the whines and clunks of the landing skids deployed. He felt the sudden lurch in his stomach as the ship slowly descended onto the pad ending with a jerk as the skids braced and settled under the ship’s mass. Soren unbuckled the four point harness that held him in the command chair. He flipped the three switches powering the ship’s sublight engines off and the engine’s hum dulled and faded as he stood from the chair and stretched his arms wide. He flopped his arms back down towards his side and turned on his heel towards the locker room. Minerva seated next to him, deftly rose from her chair and matched his pace down the hall.


        As they walked into the locker room Minerva spoke, 
        “I’ve forwarded the ship’s manifest to the station’s quartermaster as well as your signoff on the resupply.”
 
        Soren glanced over to Minerva and nodded in approval as he opened a locker containing his staple station attire. He’d long given up the jumpsuit adorned by Minerva and other pathfinders for a more casual look. An open collared dark grey long sleeve shirt with a black leather vest, followed by a pair of black pants with a yellow pinstripe along the side. He finished dressing and stepped over to the bench and pulled on his black knee high equestrian riding boots, he knew perfectly well that there were no horses in space (and if there were, they were likely not very happy) but riding boots had a kind of “pazzaz” to them that Soren always liked. 


        While Soren dressed himself, Minerva stepped towards a circular port in the wall and de-materialized, seconds later a fist sized spherical projection orb floated out of the opening. The orb floated over towards Soren and small panels surrounding the ball retracted towards the backside of the orb revealing cyan holo panels that blinked on causing Minerva to reappear leaning on the locker beside Soren as he slipped his boots on. Once they were both “dressed” they stepped out of the locker room and strode towards the ship’s disembarkment chamber. The door sighed open as they stepped into the chamber then closed behind them. Soren placed his hand on a reader located on the left side of the chamber and a bar of light emanated from the bottom of the scanner and traced Soren’s hand to the tips of his fingers, it let out a quick chime and blinked blue. A section of the floor in front of them parted along the middle revealing a folded staircase, once the floor had retracted into the ship a bulkhead under the staircase parted open filling the chamber with the cacophony of the docking bay. The bulkhead retracted into the ship and the staircase descended towards the landing pad deck, a thunk bounced into the room as the staircase made contact with the pad’s surface. 


        Minerva and Soren stepped down the staircase and walked towards the station’s administrative offices hatch. As they walked Soren looked up at the ship’s underbelly inspecting to see if there were any life or mission threatening indicators hitchhiking between the armor panels and rivets of the ship. The hatch hissed open as they approached revealing the hustle and bustle that kept the station working, dockhands with data pads arguing over which parts were correct for an outgoing manifest and four legged cargo bots carrying several stacked crates of unknown contents. They navigated through the hoi polloi following signs reading Cartographic Bonds Office with arrows pointing towards the correct path next to the name. As they were passing the galactic tourism office, which facilitated long haul cruises that following the interspersed distance of galactic refit stations, he noticed several of the tourists gawk at him, and more particularly the pathfinder insignia emblazoned on his vest; a winged torch superimposed on the spear Gungnir, Odin’s spear, the god of wayfarers and wanderers, pointing towards an eight pointed rendition of the star Polaris. He pulled the collar down in a vain attempt to cover the patch. Smirking behind him as he walked Minerva remarked,                 “Looks like you have some fans.”
 
He grimaced and increased his pace as the rest of the station's denizens began to take notice of what he viewed at this point, as an inadvertent brand. 


        Fifteen feet from the bonds office he heard Minerva exclaim in surprise as the clumsy scampering of a child’s feet flew through her hologram. Soren felt a tug at the edge of his vest, and he glanced over his shoulder peering at a set of smokey brown topaz eyes belonging to a young girl. As he looked he saw that her eyes were filled with awe and a zealous ferocity. The girl noticed her hand still clutched a scrunched portion of his vest and released it as if it were suddenly a venomous snake. She stammered, 
        “E-excuse me sir, I saw on your vest--” 
He stifled a sigh and pulled the collar of the vest revealing the black and silver insignia on his vest. The young girl's eyes grew wider than he’d thought they could past their current state of reverence, she leaned in and whispered to him as if they were suddenly engaging in some conspiratorial plot that shouldn’t be heard, 
        “Are you a Pathfinder?” 
        At this point he didn’t bother to catch the roll of his eyes, and once they settled he briefly caught the terrifying glare of Minerva’s lightning filled eyes. He quickly looked down at the child and adopted a friendly and diplomatic rictus; arguably the best he could muster, he addressed the girl, 
        “Indeed, I am.” 
He stole a glance at Minerva and saw that her glower hadn't changed, the girl composed herself and with rehearsed conviction stated, 
        “I’m planning on becoming a Pathfinder as well, and I’ll be the best one ever.”


        Soren pulled back from the girl, he wasn’t sure why but, this blatant naivete and youthful optimism had suddenly filled him with an immense flood of guilt. Gravitas arose on his face, and looking at Minerva he saw that the veritable hurricane in her eyes had settled into a dull blue glow as she gazed soberly at the girl.  


        Soren turned to face the girl, feeling relief that the sudden change in mood hadn’t been noticed, most likely buffered by her awe. He glanced at Faber of Fortune, at the small swarm of workers crawling over her, loading crates into the cargo hold, exchanging old piping, loose welds being replaced and paint being reapplied where it had been worn through by the winds and storms of the countless worlds he’d disembarked on. He looked back at the girl, whose eyes had remained fixed on him, he glanced down at his patch and with hesitation tore it off his vest. Between two fingers he playfully tapped her on the head with it then proffered it to her. She looked at it incredulously then slowly grasped it with both her hands,                 “Woah, t-thanks mister… uh?” 
Soren smirked at her and replied, 
        “Mister is fine, good luck kid.” 
        He turned on his heel, not bothering to look back at the starstruck child still clutching his patch in her hands. They entered the bonds office and walked across the waiting room to the front desk of the office, meeting the gaze of the secretary slouched behind his desk. The secretary looked up from whatever administrative banality was on his holo screen and saw Soren walking towards him, immediately he raised his left index finger and pointed to his right towards a set of doors with the words Cartographics with the pathfinder insignia emblazoned above it. Not bothering to stop at the secretary’s desk Soren adjusted his course and continued marching towards the cartographics doors, not breaking his stride as they hissed open.


        Soren strode over to and sat at one of two desks in the room, as he sat down he heard Minerva gently say his name. He turned his head and saw her hand on his shoulder, he looked up at her face, her brow and eyes conveyed sorrow and sympathy as he looked back down at her hand as she tried to squeeze his shoulder only to have her fingers pass through the leather vest. Acknowledging her with a regretful smirk, he turned to look at the console which had projected a holographic screen in front of him, prompting the entrance of his Pathfinder credentials. He keyed them through the keypad in front of him and Minerva’s wrist mounted data pad lit up as she uploaded all of his -- or their, current discoveries into the cartographic database. As the data uploaded he glanced at a set of numbers growing at the bottom right hand corner of the screen, with a ting the data finished uploading number halting at 7,049,343 credits, he chuckled at the mathematical coincidence and signed off. He stood up and sauntered over to a viewing port and gazed at his ship, 
        “A pathfinder’s strength is their personal awareness of the nature of solitude--” he whispered to himself. 
Minerva slowly walked up beside him and in equal tone replied, 
        “--and their greatest burden is the acceptance of it.”




Chapter 4: Pathfinder


        At the farthest edge of the bartop of the Wayfarer; a tavern whose membership was exclusive to Pathfinders[p], Soren sat hunched over a datapad, lazily fingering the pad’s display screen confirming the supplies that had been loaded onto his ship were correct. Content that the manifest was fulfilled he stowed the pad in the breast pocket of his vest and took a swig from a glass of bourbon and a long pull from a cigarette in the same hand. Unlike most bars and pubs located throughout the settled worlds, the chain of Wayfarer Taverns located at every refit station in the galaxy, were incredibly small. Each one could accommodate between two and four pathfinders at a time, and they were acoustically sealed, to reduce the jarring experience of re-entering a population center that was common among pathfinders. After being out in the void with only sounds of their ship, their AI to keep them company, and whatever nature threw at them, what may have seemed like a quiet posting to those accustomed to the hubbub of a small settlement, sounded like a veritable hurricane to Pathfinders returning from a long stint in space. It wasn’t uncommon for a pilot to expel the contents of their stomach if this aural exposure was too great. 


        Soren glanced over to Minerva whose fingers silently danced across the data pad on her wrist. She noticed his gaze and said, 
        “I’m prioritizing our survey stops once we leave the station, the usual systems with colony potential first, and sprinkling some mineral and marker systems where I can fit them. We’re still on course to arrive at UDF 2457 in four months, plus or minus a few days.”


        Soren tipped his glass towards her then took another swig, draining it. Minerva, satisfied with her course projections, closed a panel over her data pad covering it. She spun the circular bar chair so that she was facing Soren, who was at this point finishing his cigarette and waving the bar-bot down while pointing at his empty glass. She furrowed her brow in an expression conveying worry and said softly, 
        “You couldn’t have known she’d say that” referring to the wide eyed girl they’d run into outside the cartographics office. Soren stared vacantly at the tavern’s wall, which was currently simulating a snowy nighttime vista, with the aurora borealis slowly streaming across the sky. He brought the refilled glass to his lips and before he took another swill, dully said, 
        “I know.” 
He exhaled as the burning drink traveled down his gullet and remarked, 
        “I just wish recruiters were more upfront about what it took.”


            Pathfinders were by all rights some of the rarest humans ever seen, and if it were a competition the only group of people that were viewed less were the dead. Unlike the military, the Pathfinder Corps explicitly prefered loners, recluses, and introverts; provided a nominal psych-eval result. They didn’t want the popular team captains or charismatic military commanders that you would see emulated on holofilms or shows, usually giving vapid speeches about bravery and duty, or rallying teams for one last heroic charge or defense. A good Pathfinder was the one that survived for weeks when their whole team had been killed in an ambush, the lone scientist who purposely stationed themselves at a remote and dangerous outpost alone. They wanted problem solvers who didn’t need a team, and even thrived when they didn’t have one. Quiet, consummate and laconic professionals. Pathfinders weren’t by any means villainized, and their achievements were certainly celebrated, however they were usually too far away to acknowledge any accolades. This was most obvious in the public affairs department of the Corps, which was made up entirely of people who’d never even applied to be a Pathfinder.


        The most involved Pathfinders ever were within their own institution, was the adherence to the rotating two year instructor position at the single Pathfinder academy; known as The School, located in the middle of the northern icecap on Mars. The School’s curriculum lasted a total of thirteen months. The first month is the administrative month, teaching the routes of the refit stations and each one's respective nuances, the founding of the Corps in 2187 and notable discoveries and achievements such as the mapping of the galactic core; Sagittarius A*, and the initial establishment of the galactic refit routes. Notably absent however, is the reverence often seen in other institutions of those who came before. While the names of those who made pioneering steps are unofficially respected, Pathfinders collectively don’t engage in any sanctioned hero worship. The next nine months, known as The Gauntlet, are spent learning to survive and survey each of the volatile planets and moons located throughout Sol. The burning sulfur pits of Io, the dichotomous temperature along Mercury’s meridian, and the nitrogen glaciers of frigid Pluto. Candidates are graded based on two requisites, how well they navigate and survey each stellar body, and if they survive. The final three months, provided the class survived the Gauntlet; total class loss was not uncommon, are spent learning how to navigate dangerous stellar phenomena such as solar flares or black holes, and diagnosing shipborne problems such as drive failures, reactor meltdowns, and compromised ship canopies.


        The core attributes that were expected from the beginning and end of a Pathfinder’s training were self sufficiency and individual initiative. Points were deducted for relying on other candidates or the instructors, and no quarter was given to those unable to help or even save themselves. It is harsh, but necessary. Provided a candidate survived and received passing marks, the “graduation” ceremony involved candidates undergoing a deep neural scan that forged the creation of their companion artificial intelligence. This AI would throughout their career oftentimes be the only social interaction they would have for months at a time, and more importantly the only tangible help they could reach out to. The AI was to be friend, crewmate, mentor and in some rare cases, lover to the Pathfinder so they were based on almost mirroring the attributes of the graduate. Once receiving their companion, they engaged in one of the only ceremonies practiced by Pathfinders. The graduates would travel back to the academy on Mars where at the entrance of the school stood two stone obelisks. The obelisks were made from stimulated memory granite and over the surface of them were thousands[q][r] of thumbprints with each obelisk face changing to a new set of prints daily. Written on the ground between the two pillars were the words May Yours Never Show, a Pathfinder’s thumbprint only became visible on the obelisks if they had been declared dead, or missing for more than 60 years.


        While the process of becoming a Pathfinder was, objectively, rather grueling and grim. That wasn’t to say that the rest of their career would follow the same path (it could, but generally didn’t). The potential to amass a small fortune per expedition was high, provided the pilot was diligent of course, and the exposure to some of the cosmos most beautiful (which usually meant dangerous) phenomena was another perk[s]. Soren’s first expedition had brought him to the glowing blue field of pulsars located in the Scutum-Sagittarii Conflux towards the galactic core. It had looked like a veritable farm of spinning blue tops[t], each star ejecting twin jets of electromagnetic radiation, and he had been well aware that if he was careless enough to fly through any of these streams, it was guaranteed his thumbprint would show on the obelisks. There were no guidelines about what type of ships should be flown, what they should look like and what modifications could be made. It went without saying that if it made you a better pathfinder, use it. After graduation the only required service time was 4 expeditions of at least 6 months[u][v][w], a Pathfinder could theoretically retire after one journey, but the payouts usually kept most pilots onboard for a few more missions.


        As Soren watched the Aurora dance across the sky on the wall, he felt a slight tingling sensation, like a static shock from a charged carpet, in his right shoulder. He looked towards Minerva who had her hand on his shoulder. She’d “tapped” him with a small electric discharge which she used to get his attention when he fell into his bouts of ruminance. He flashed her a wry smile indicating that he was fine, to which she returned. Soren downed his drink and placed his palm on the bartop until a green light warmed around the periphery of his hand, indicating that his time was paid for. They swiveled off their barstools and strolled towards the tavern’s exit.


        Having returned to Faber of Fortune, the floor panels of the embarkment chamber shut behind them as Soren placed his hand on the reader. He walked towards the bridge as the glowing orb Minerva used to project herself alongside him on the station jetted towards the locker room. The hallway projection lights twinkled on returning her projection walking in stride with him, now dressed as an aviator from the early 19th century, with knee high chestnut brown flying boots, khaki pants adorned with zipper pockets and a dark brown bomber jacket with the sheepskin collar folded down along her chest. Around her neck was a white silk aviator scarf tucked into the inside of the zipped jacket. Soren tried to stifle a laugh as he looked at Minerva, while his outfit wasn’t that different from hers; arguably more modern, he didn’t have the leather flying cap with the face-spanning yellow tinted goggles on his head. Minerva scowled at him, 
        “Something funny?” 
Soren quipped back, 
        “Nothing at all, Miss Earhart.'' Losing his composure as he finished his jest. She scoffed, and the flying cap and goggles de-materialized, being replaced with her hair pulled into a loose ponytail above her neck. As they walked they could have absolutely been mistaken as a set of dashing smugglers that were always portrayed in holofilm space epics.


        They plotted their course at the navigation table and took their seats, Soren in the Command Chair with Minerva adjacent to him. He flipped the three engine switches and opened a comms channel to the station’s control hub, 
        “3170 Refit this is Sierra-Golf 9117 requesting departure clearance, over?” The controller’s voice crackled over the channel, 
        “Copy Sierra-Golf ninety one seventeen, you're clear to begin preflight checks.” 
        Soren returned the informal affirmative by squelching the communication button twice. Soren’s hands danced over the ship’s flight console initiating the pre-flight check sequence, which took the form of a series of checkboxes on his heads up display; or HUD, superimposed on the canopy glass. Soren rotated the control stick clockwise and counterclockwise then left, right and forward, back, as he did this, the VMS nozzles on the ship gave quick burps of light indicating that the ship would be able to maneuver in space properly. The VMS checkbox on the canopy blinked on. He then pushed the throttle forward and back, the engines responding in kind by rumbling louder and then whining down, and the thruster check box blinked on, he returned the throttle to its neutral position in the middle of the power track. The last check box was a test of the ship’s jump drive which involved essentially making sure that the button to start it functioned properly, to avoid opening a mass transfer ring inside of the station. 


        With all preflight checks complete, the controllers voice crackled back over the comm channel, with the rapid and semi-pedantic repetition of every number in both their callsigns, 
        “Sierra-Golf ninety one seventeen this is thirty one seventy refit, we read that the pre-flight sequence is complete, how copy?” 
Soren squelched the comm channel twice indicating his confirmation. An instant later the controller snapped back, 
        “Sierra-Golf ninety one seventeen this is thirty one seventy refit, we read that pre-flight sequence is complete, please confirm with an audible affirmative, howcopy?” 
Soren rolled his eyes and settled his glare on the control hub overlooking the docking bay, with obvious sarcasm, he opened the channel again,                                 “Three-One-Seven-Zero Refit Station, this is Sierra-Golf                                         Nine-One-One-Seven confirming that preflight checks have indeed been completed and are nominal, how copy?” 
        This prompted an irritated scoff from Minerva who no doubt was rolling her eyes behind him. Content with his patronizing reply the hub replied back reverting back to the rapid informal tone that he was used to, 
        “Roger Sierra-Golf ninety-one seventeen, you are clear for departure, taxi towards the gate maintaining trajectory on the starboard lane of departure, and maintain station speed limit until your range exceeds one thousand meters from the station, how copy?” 
        He returned another sarcastic affirmative and the pad rotated aligning the bow of the ship towards the departure gate and he slowly pulled Faber of Fortune off the pad. 


        Once they had exited and were clear of the station Soren pulled back on the control stick and maxed the throttle out by pushing it all the way forward on the power track, sending Faber rocketing above the station’s plane of orbit. Minerva stated, 
        “The waypoint for the jump is on your HUD, this is a transit stop so it's just in and out for this one.” 
        Soren flashed her a thumbs up and aligned the ship by following the arrow indicating the direction of the system. Once the ship was inline with the waypoint,  he saw a tiny blue dot with a green halo surrounding, the right side of the halo had a small green line protruding from the horizontal axis of the ring with the name Scorpius 2185-87 listed above the protruding line. He pulled the throttle back towards a cruising speed and engaged the jump drive.  


Chapter 5: Distress Call


        For the next month they had surveyed 256 systems, including four earth like worlds, and sixteen terraformable worlds; worlds that fit the distance profile from their sun, or suns, but needed some atmospheric and geographic coaxing to be colonized. Soren was in good spirits, he was content that when he reached the Eurus refit station located on the far side of the Norma Arm his bank account would see a nice buffer of at least thirty million credits. He thought about what new addition he wanted to install in Faber of Fortune, maybe a hydroponics bay? He’d been torn between wanting the bay to try and grow his own vegetables on the ship and reducing his expedition costs, or if he wanted to use it to collect plant samples from all the verdant worlds he’d discover. Another possibility that he’d been discussing with Minerva was installing her cognition matrix into one of the newest models of bio-mechanical husks[x][y]. It’d give him an extra set of hands when he physically embarked on worlds to survey them, he saw it as a zero sum game since she could help him with his work, and there was nothing to stop her from leaving one of her memory shards to monitor the ship while they worked. Minerva was more skeptical because she thought that her capabilities would be limited, by all rights she was everywhere in the ship at the same time, and could give equal attention to any ship suite at any time at the same time. 


        Soren sitting in the command chair rambled to Minerva, 
        “Look, all I’m saying is that the husk would let you actually help me out a lot, you know, we could install another rover bay, land on a planet and divide and conquer!” Minerva, busy at the navigation station shot him an exasperated glance, he continued, 
        “You could, you know, do stuff.” He began touching various parts of the ship and gesticulating with his hands with an expression on his face that essentially said bet you can’t do this. Not even bothering with a glance Minerva quipped back,                 “I’m pretty sure I can do enough stuff on this ship without a husk.” 
Soren threw his hands up in exasperation, she continued, 
        “Besides we need to make the next jump, the system is emitting some strange transmission and I think it would be best if you actually paid attention to where we’re going.” 
        Soren slowly spun the command chair to face her and looked at her quizzically and said, 
        “Like strange transmission in a more-money-transmission kind of way--”                 then lowering his head and whispering suspiciously, “--Or in a                                 strange-transmission-from-aliens kind of transmission?” 
Still not looking at him Minerva shrugged her shoulders and replied, 
        “Don’t know, but there's only one way to find out.” 
        Soren spun the chair back around to look out of the bridge canopy. He initiated the jump sequence and braced for the journey through tachyon space.


          As Faber of Fortune emerged from the reconciliation gate, Soren exclaimed and yanked the control stick back as far as the gimbal would allow him, pulling Faber into a near vertical trajectory. Maintaining the position of the control stick, he then pulled the throttle all the way back lurching the ship into a reverse thrust, this maneuver turned the ship along its axis without maintaining the forward thrust he’d previously had. The ship slowly spun to face what had caused him to conduct the maneuver. Spanning the width of the canopy was the broken hulk of a ship with the odd spark emitting from various parts of the wrecked vessel. He couldn’t see what kind of ship it was due it being completely silhouetted against the backdrop of the bright yellow star of the system. Soren called out to Minerva, 
        “See if you can get a scan of the ship’s details and manifest, I can’t see what                 the hell I’m looking at.” 
Seconds later Minerva replied, 
        “Looks like a long haul cruiser, tourism designation, pulling up the crew and                 passenger manifest now” 
Soren leaned back in his chair and placed his head on a closed fist while he waited, a moment later she spoke again with a tsk, 
        “Looks like there's no active life signs on board and no escape pods activated.” 
        Soren looked back at Minerva and gave a mocking upturned bottom lip, then turned around and clapped both hands then rubbed them together, 
        “Right, looks like we’ve got salvage rights on this bad boy.” He got up and                 called back to Minerva, “Prep the shuttle I’m gonna go ahead and suit up for the EVA. Please.” 
        The bridge door hissed open as Soren marched towards the locker room.


        Once he’d donned his space suit, instead of walking towards the rover bay, he stepped back out into the main hallway and into an adjacent room with a staircase that led into the shuttle bay. He palmed the reader at the bottom of the door and the hatch slid open. The shuttle which he’d dubbed Pequod, resembled a teardrop with wings. The roughly ten meter hull had a glass dome covering the cockpit, the wings could retract to accommodate whatever atmosphere; or lack thereof, the vessel found itself in. He placed a gloved wrist against the part of the hull that was closer to the dome and a door seamlessly appeared from the hull opening to allow him to crawl in. He crawled into the pilots station and toggled the knob to close the door. He tapped the button on the side of his helmet, 
        “Faber this is Pequod comms check.” 
Minerva’s voice filled his helmet, 
        “All good here Commander, purging atmosphere now.” 
The shuttle bay began to violently hiss and then subside as the atmosphere was vented out of the bay. He felt a lurch as the shuttle was positioned and aligned into the launch chute. Soren grabbed the hand holds on the control console and braced. Pequod was then violently shot through the chute out of the backside of Faber, he’d always found the launch process comedic; in a juvenile sense, and refrained from making a whale birth joke over the comms channel. 


        As the artificial gravity afforded by Faber of Fortune evaporated he pulled his flight harness tighter to secure himself into the seat. He pulled Pequod about to face the hulk and toggled the external ship lights. He cruised slowly towards the ship and summoned Minerva over the comms, 
        “Can you find me an access hatch or opening that I can pull up to.” 
She replied back, 
        “Found one, marking the waypoint on your HUD.” 
Soren manueverd the shuttle towards the small inverted triangle on the canopy, once he was roughly five meters from the illuminated hatch he punched a knob above his head that launched four magnetic hull tethers located on the front of the shuttle that latched onto the so far derelict hulk. The tethers secure he felt a slight jerk as Pequod’s movement matched the slow drift of the vessel, 
        “I’m secure, unbuckling now and stepping out.”


        He heard the double squelch from Faber as Minerva acknowledged. He pulled himself to the small bulkhead of the shuttle and pressed his gauntlet against the reader opening the hatch letting a momentary hiss as the atmosphere rushed out and let the silence of space in. Grasping the external handholds on the shuttle he pulled himself over the Pequod and softly launched himself towards the large vessel’s hatch. He turned his body so he could brace the landing with all four of limbs outstretched. With a gentle clunk his mag-boots adhered to the surface of the vessel and he looked down at the square external hatch. He pulled a hatchbreaker tool from his utility belt and leaned down to place it on the center of the hatch. He stood back up to look at Faber's illuminated bridge and gave a haughty wave to Minerva who, even from his vantage point, was visibly shaking her head. With a smug smile Soren glanced down at the hatchbreaker, a small teal ring at the end of the tool completed its circuit and with a muffled thump the hatch opened and started to drift towards him. When the door was at his waist he pulled the hatchbreaker off and secured back onto his belt. He then lifted a foot and softly kicked the door, sending it on a course to drift eternally through the void.


        He toggled the headlights on his helmet and opened a comms channel, 
        “No atmosphere came out behind the hatch, so that doesn’t bode well for                 anybody in there.”
Minerva replied back, 
        “At least for this section of the ship, so stay on your toes.” 
He squelched back twice in acknowledgment and walked into the hatch momentarily disoriented as he now walked along the doorway instead of down it,                 “Minerva, can you set a waypoint towards the reactor, I’ll start the salvage                 there.” 
She chimed back, 
        “Already on it looks like you’re already on the engineering deck so that                 saves you some time.” 
The green triangle appeared on the face of his helmet and he began trudging towards it. A few minutes later Minerva came back on the comms and said, 
        “Hang on, I’m reading lifesigns from the ship, looks like your suits ambient                 scanners found something that Faber didn’t.” 
Soren immediately stopped and pulled his sidearm off his belt calling back, 
        “What kind of life signs, please god don’t say unknown.” 
Reassuringly and with obvious humor she piped back, 
        “Don’t worry, looks human. Its two decks above you, and as you know                 mission parameters have changed, this is now a rescue.” 
With a sigh Soren holstered his sidearm and with irritation said “Alright, adjust the waypoint. This person better be a billionaire.” The waypoint moved to the top of his helmet enlarging slightly to show that it was further away. He angrily clunked towards a ladder leading up to the next deck. Cursing his fortune as he climbed, he placed a gloved hand on the second deck to help himself out of the ladder tunnel, and froze in place. 


        “Uh, Minerva, are you seeing this.” 
All he heard was a muted, 
        “Yup.” 
Around him drifting, were bodies. Some of them had portions of EVA suits on, but most were still wearing their normal clothes. He gingerly lifted his head as to avoid bumping into any of the floating cadavers. They all bore the obvious and gruesome signs of rapid decompression, their skin a ghostly white and caked with a thin layer of frost. He pushed a path through the bodies towards the green waypoint, avoiding making contact with any of the leaking blood spilling out from some of the corpses. He saw a small sliver of light at the corner of the hallway in front of him. Reaching the corner he saw a room with the flashing blue screen of an oxygen capacity timer. In the room he saw a small figure with its back to him in a bright orange space suit curled into the fetal position, the green triangle rested above the floating figure. He glanced over to the hatch leading into the room and saw a woman, wearing portions of a space suit, clutching the handhold on the side of the hatch. He moved over to her body and pushed her away towards the center of the hallway with the other bodies, causing her hand to snap off at the wrist and remaining gripped to the handhold. Soren let out a subdued “Woops” and put the hatchbreaker tool on the door leading into the room. While it worked, he decided to see if the orange figure was conscious by knocking on the viewing window, when it didn’t respond, he shrugged and waited for the tool to finish. 


        The hatchbreaker finished and he pulled it off and crept into the room. He strode over to the figure and spun it so it faced him. He couldn’t see the suit's occupant due to the polarized orange visor of the small suit. He tapped the figure again, still no reaction, he keyed a comms channel to Minerva, 
        “What am I looking at here, this one seems proper dead if you ask me.” Matter-of-factly she replied back, 
        “They’re probably sedated right now, a lot of these emergency EVA suits                 have a built in sedative to reduce oxygen consumption due to                                 hyperventilating.” 
Soren looked at the figure again, while lazily poking it with his index figure he said, 
        “So they’re still alive?” 
Minerva squelched twice, he let out an exasperated sigh and strapped the orange figure to his back and made his way towards Pequod. Once back on the shuttle he strapped the figure to one of the foldout chairs behind the pilot seat. Buckling himself back in, he retracted the magnetic tethers and oriented the ship back towards it’s proverbial “mother.” 


        He aligned Pequod towards the open shuttle bay and softly boosted into the ship. As they glided through the chute gravity settled into the shuttle causing Soren’s stomach to lurch and the figure to slump over limp in their harness. The docking clamps secured the shuttle in its previous place. Soren unbuckled himself and clambered over to the now drooping figure, he unclipped the harness and caught the small figure as they slouched over. Stepping out and pulling the figure onto the deck he asked Minerva, 
        “This suits pretty small, like really small.” 
Her voice rang out across the hanger, 
        “Bring them into the medbay so I can run a full diagnostic on them. Maybe                 they can tell us what happened.” 
As he threw the limp body over his shoulder, he thought that this figure might in fact be a child. Which shouldn't have been possible, or legal, since long haul cruises have a minimum age requirement of 18, so this person just must have been really small, and not a child. He stood with the small figure in the decon chamber waiting for the tune to chime. Once it did he stepped up the stairs and headed towards the medbay located in the aft section of the ship. 


        He fumbled taking off a glove with the figure still slung over his shoulder and let it clatter to the deck once he succeeded in taking it off. He placed his palm on the reader, causing the wide medbay doors to rush open, he then waddled in and rather carelessly plopped the figure on the examination table. Minerva materialized next to him, wearing a set of subdued green surgeons scrubs. She approached the figure and began examining it with assistance of the overhead med-bot. Soren was meanwhile fumbling with his helmet clip after he’d undone the other gauntlet. Succeeding in freeing his head, he crashed down into one of the chairs in the bay and let out an exhausted sigh. As he caught his breath Minerva called out to him unassuringly, 
        “Uh, Soren, come take the helmet off, you’re gonna be pretty surprised to see who it is.” 
Begrudgingly he rose and shot a suspicious frown at Minerva who shrugged her shoulders in return. He walked up to the examination table and restarted the cumbersome process of taking a helmet off. He moved the fastening clips to their unlatched position and grabbed the sides of the helmet with both his hands. As he pulled the helmet off strands of clumped dirty blonde hair spilled out of the helmet. 


        Lying on the examination table in a chemically induced slumber in front of them, was the child they’d met at the refit station. Dumbfounded, and unsure what to do, Soren blurted out, 
        “What the hell do we do with this?!”


Chapter 6: Baggage


        Soren sat slouched at one end of the long matte white dining table. He had his elbows perched on the arm rests of the chair with his knees feverishly moving up and down under the table. His brow was furrowed and he had his fingers clasped together covering his mouth, as he silently observed the eight year old in front of him devouring a meal of steak and eggs that he’d prepared for her. At the opposite side of the table, Minerva, still in her scrubs sat next to her, monitoring the child’s medical readouts on her data pad, that now resembled a thin plywood clipboard. He waited for the girl to pause her feasting and opened his mouth to speak, only to be interrupted as she began inhaling the biscuits on the plate. Soren moved his mouth back behind his clasped hands and waited for another pause.


        The girl finished the biscuits and gulped down the glass of orange juice next to her plate. She finished, and let out an impressively long belch. Soren, hoping that she wouldn’t move on to eating the plate next cautiously asked, 
        “You, uh, you still hungry?” 
        The girl set her gaze on him and shook her head. He’d retreated back behind his hands and opened his mouth to speak, paused again, before finally asking,
        “What’s your name?” 
The girl looked at him with eyes glazed over, then slowly looked past him at the floating hulk of the ship that he’d pulled her off of, after a moment she mumbled,                 “Amelia.” 
Soren gave her a wistful smile and replied, 
        “Do you remember me Amelia?” 
The girl nodded her head in affirmation, he continued, 
        “Well Amelia, I didn’t think we’d meet again, but now that we have you can                 call me Soren, and that over there is Minerva, she’ll take good care of you                 while we find out what to do next.”
 
        Amelia’s eyes began to water and Minerva began to comfort her with various assurances and shushes. Minerva looked gravely over to Soren and said softly, 
        “She needs rest” and then looking back at the whimpering girl said “if she can.” 
Soren spoke from behind his hands, 
        “You can put her in my bed.” 
Minerva beckoned for Amelia to follow, he saw the girl try to grasp her hand only for it to pass through Minerva’s projection. To her credit she wasn’t alarmed by it and she continued to follow her out of the living room door. 


        Once they had both left the room, Soren sighed and pushed himself from the chair with an exaggerated effort. He wandered towards a small bar in the room and pulled a bottle of bourbon[z] from a collection of liquors sitting on a lipped shelf, which made sure that the bottles stayed secure during any strenuous movements he put the ship through. He then pulled a small cylindrical glass from the same shelf and placed his hand under a opening next to the shelf, seconds later a perfectly sculpted sphere of ice plopped into his hand, he massaged it wet and placed it gingerly into the glass and poured a more than generous contribution of the bourbon into it. He sipped the liquor, closing his eyes and bringing his fingertips together relishing its magnificent taste, he then meandered over to the couch and plopped down in a section that faced the miserable hulk he’d just been on, taking a sip from his overfilled glass. 


        Out of the corner of his eye he saw a shimmer appear on the far side of the couch he was sitting on. Minerva materialized, with her head drooping and elbows resting on her legs. Without altering his gaze Soren mumbled, 
        “Is she sleeping?” 
She joined Soren in gazing at the wreck, her eyes now pulsing a dull cerulean, 
        “Not yet, I’m in the room with her now answering any questions she has,                 more importantly I’m waiting for her shock to fully subside before I let her                 sleep.” 
Soren nodded and asked plainly, 
        “So, any idea what happened?” 
Minerva leaned back into the couch and spoke, 
        “From what the logs look like, the ship, or should I say the Wilhelm Gustloff,         which is what the manifest ID’d the ship as was docked at our last refit and                 left roughly two days after. The ship's course was nominal up until two                 jumps from here. It looks like they jumped into a system whose main star                 was a pulsar and the captain in his infinite brilliance plotted the                                 reconciliation gate within the radius of the pulsar's electromagnetic jet. He                 didn’t put the gate directly on the jet, otherwise we’d be delivering very                 different news, but just enough to where a part of the jet intersected with the                 ship’s power supply and life support systems. Long story short, the EM                 radiation fried the life support purging sequence, which it normally conducts         in dry dock. Predictably it set a deadly precedent when the ship arrived in                 this system. The life support purged, and when the captain tried to restart it,                 the power supply failed as well. Causing an unrecoverable cascade of rapid                 decompression throughout the ship, Amelia’s deck was the last viable one                 hence why you saw some of the crew and passengers partially dressed for                 EVA.”


Soren, between sips and not having moved his sight from the hulk asked, 
        “That makes sense, albeit in a grim way, but that doesn’t explain--” and he gestured with his head towards the direction of his bedchamber “--why a child was on a long haul cruise.” 
        Minerva continued, 
        “I had to do some digging but, combined with a greedy crew and vague legal         policy, they found a way to bring her on board.”


        They both looked out at the revolving vessel for some time before Soren spoke, 
        “So we’ve got an idiot captain, a marker for a bunch of dead tourists, no                 doubt at least one of her parents being on that ship, and an orphan.”
Minerva looked at him quizzically, 
        “What makes you say that?” 
He scratched his head in feigned ignorance and tried to find a diplomatic way of saying he pushed her mother into a pile of other dead bodies, and snapped her hand off. 
        “There was a woman who was holding onto the door of the room she was in,         I pushed her aside.” 
Minerva scowled at him and caught the lie, 
        “You mean you shoved her aside and left her frozen hand on the door.” Soren threw his hands up and flashed her a look conveying what the hell was I supposed to do. They both sat in silence for a while before Minerva spoke, 
        “We’ve got to find out where to take her.” 
Soren scratched his chin and replied, 
        “Or at least who we can take her to. We’re already behind schedule.” Minerva nodded, 
        “You should check on her before you head back to the bridge, she’s asking                 about you.” 
He groaned, finished his drink and marched out of the living room.


        The doors to Soren’s bedroom parted softly, he stood in the doorway with his hands in his pocket before cautiously striding into the room. He looked towards the tiny figure sitting up in his bed, silhouetted against the wall from the single light he had on his nightstand. The girl’s hair was still the tussled mess from when they’d pulled her out of her space suit. He sat in a chair opposite the girl and placed his elbows on his knees with hands clasped together. He rubbed his neck before hesitantly asking, 
        “Was there, uh, was there anyone on the ship that was taking care of you?                 Mom?” 
Amelia nodded sadly, he continued, 
        “And Dad? Was he there also?” 
He saw tears well up in her eyes, and she nodded again, and began to whimper, struggling to hold back sobs. Minerva materialized on the bedside doing her best to console her, Soren saw her face struggling to cope with the fact that she could do almost anything for this child except give her a simple hug. He brought his head down to make eye contact with Amelia’s soaked eyes and softly spoke, 
        “We’ll be arriving at Eurus station where we can find someone to take you                 back, uh, home.” 
The girl suddenly erupted into a series of heaving sobs. Soren touched his finger tips awkwardly together, looking over to Minerva who motioned towards the door with her head, 
        “I’ll stay with her.” she whispered, he nodded and rubbed his thighs as he stood and walked out of the bedroom. 


        Soren walked into the bridge to see Minerva at the nav station, she spoke as he meandered to the command chair, 
        “I’m adjusting our arrival date to Eurus station, so we can find out who to                 get into contact with, regarding Amelia.” 
He nodded his head and spun the chair around to face the canopy, he said, 
        “So what's our new arrival time?” 
Still plugging away at the station Minerva replied, 
        “Three weeks, but we’ll be bingo on fuel at that point, so Faber will be                 running on fumes into the station.” 
Soren gave her a quick thumbs up and said, 
        “Sounds good I’ll start the jump sequence now, hopefully someone there                 knows what to do.”


Chapter 7: Crossroads[aa]


        Eurus station was the last major refit station available for a Pathfinder before they entered the unmapped Bleak Lands of the Scutum[ab][ac][ad]-Centaurus Arm. Unlike AP- 3170, Eurus station was entirely man-made. The structure resembled a long metallic cylindrical tube that had three spoked rings encircling the middle and both ends of the cylinder. The rings rotated in a clockwise and counterclockwise pattern, and the insides were made from panels of honeycombed glass, revealing the verdant hydroponics gardens that sustained the station. Faber of Fortune floated in a queue of starships that were standing by for entrance into the station, 
        “Minerva, are you sure we’re going to make it into the station? Because                 these--” Soren punched a button turning the ship’s critical fuel level claxon                 off“-- alarms are screeching otherwise.” 
Minerva, standing behind Amelia; who was buckled into the copilot's chair, calmly spoke, 
        “We’ll be fine, and if we run out the station will just tractor us in.” 
Soren grumbled, 
        “I’m not trying to look like an amateur at the farthest refit station in the                 galaxy.” 
Minerva flashed him a mocking smile as the ship in front of them was enveloped by the station’s entrance gates. 


        As the autodocker sputtered Faber through the final gate and into the station’s docking bay Soren glanced over to Amelia whose wide eyes ingested the various ships taking off and landing and the general commotion of the busy station. Over the past few weeks she’d handled her new surroundings fairly well. She hadn’t left his room for three days after they’d found her, much to his chagrin, and he made a resolution to buy a more comfortable couch. Now everywhere that he or Minerva went she followed as did a barrage of questions always starting with the word “why.” Minerva didn’t seem to mind, she literally had the bandwidth to answer all of her queries, but in Soren’s case he’d developed a look that he gave her that after roughly two questions, signaled that he was done being interrogated. Any maintenance, calibration, or scan he did had to now be explained at her level, and he caught himself at times forgetting the function of what specific parts of the ship and rover had, only that he had to keep them from breaking, 
        “Why is that ship so big?” Amelia’s voice chirped from the co-pilot seat. Soren who was focusing on nursing a fuel depleted Faber onto the landing pad replied gruffly, 
        “Because it ate too much.” 
Amelia retorted back incredulously, 
        “That's not true! Ships don’t eat!” 
He sighed, 
        “Well that one does.” 
She looked at Minerva for validation who shook her head.


        The ship slowed to a hovering halt and descended onto the landing pad, the engines waning as they shut down. Minerva motioned for Amelia to follow her to the locker room so she could see her projection orb. As soon as they left another one of Minerva’s projections appeared in front of Soren and spoke, 
        “I’ve contacted the station’s security services to see if there is any crew that                 would be willing to take her home, however, that’s all dependent on whether                 or not someone claims her.” 
Soren, who was still gazing out of the canopy at the hustle and bustle of the gliding ships, scratched his chin and replied, 
        “Have you confirmed that her parents were indeed on the ship?” 
Minerva nodded solemnly, he continued, 
        “Is there any next of kin that we can contact then? Grandparents, uncles,                 aunts?” 
She replied, 
        “I’ve found one uncle, who's based out of Meridian, in the Vega system. I                 wouldn’t hold my breath though, from what I could find about him, he’s                 involved in some pretty shady dealings with the local syndicate there.” 
Soren groaned and scratched his head, 
        “Well then if he doesn’t play out, we’ll have to take her to one of the                         orphanages on, um, where's she from?” 
She replied, 
        “Earth.” 
Soren exclaimed, 
        “Yikes, so let's hope that someone reaches out between now and when we                 arrive on that dumpster fire.”


        In the mid 2050s, Earth had long been in a climate driven death spiral, along with a new world war that was in full swing and the occasional plague as well[ae]. Earth as a planet was fed up giving subtle signals that we should leave, she had at that point put the eviction notice on the door for humanity. The discovery of tachyon space and the subsequent jump drive presented the opportunity to leave, and most people took it. What followed was a collective bumrush of refugees flooding the immigration ports of the established colonies on Mars, Europa and Titan. The next few decades brought to light the nativist sentiment of the inundated colonists, predictably there were several insurrection attempts by colonial nationalists who were fed up with their government taking in all of these refugees. As time passed, these differences smoothed out, and the only constant was Earth’s perineal status as a floating sewer. The Earth of Soren’s time hadn't changed much either, the planet resembled the slums of early 2020s Rio De Janeiro, where a small population of “haves” lived on the poles in relative comfort, while the rest of the “have nots” were relegated to the equatorial deserts. 


        Soren walked into the locker room to find Minerva teaching Amelia how to tie the new shoes he’d made her from the materials fabricator. He addressed Minerva, 
        “You ready to head to the cartographics office?” 
She replied, 
        “Actually, you go on ahead, we’ll meet you there. I’m going to take Amelia                 to the security office to see if they can do anything for her” 
Soren shrugged and turned on his heel towards the disembarkment chamber, Minerva called to him, 
        “Oh and we’ll meet you in the garden ring, I think it’d be good for Amelia,                 she isn’t as acclimated to ship life as you are, so she could use a bit of                         nature.” 
He nodded and walked out.


        Eurus station, being the last stop for tourist charters, was a proverbial jewel amidst the emptiness of space. Along with the standard offices that most stations had such as a shipwright and the cartographics office, it was littered with restaurants, gift shops and observation points that travelers could take photos, or make boasting vid-calls home to whoever was stuck at home in the local bubble. He navigated the throngs outside the various amenity shops towards the cartographics office, and increased his pace every time he passed a group that saw his pathfinder insignia and stared at him with mouths agape. He entered the office almost at a jog and crashed into the office desk which prompted him for his credentials, oblivious to his out of breath state. He ran a hand through his now overgrown hair and keyed his credentials into the datapad, slumping back into the chair as the data uploaded. The completion tune sounded when the upload was complete and a triumphant smile broke out onto his face, 36 million credits, one of his best hauls yet. The smile quickly evaporated when he looked at his balance sheet and saw a transaction for 45 million credits above the newest deposit. He looked at where the deduction originated and saw that it had been redacted followed by a message in the invoice reading “You’ll see.” He tapped the earpiece in his ear to summon Minerva but received only static. 


        He stood up immediately and marched towards the direction of the docking bay to retrieve his side arm on the ship. If he couldn’t reach Minerva that meant one of two things, that she had willingly turned their comms channel off; which she had never done before, or that something had happened to her. A Pathfinder’s AI is one of the most advanced technologies in existence, unfortunately making it a lucrative target for theft by any enterprising group of bandits. It wasn’t completely unheard of stealing a Pathfinder AI, but it involved gaining access to their ship and pulling their cognition matrix from the bridge. He rushed through the corridors of the station, darting through groups of tourists and hurtling over cargo-bots that were trudging along in front of him. He ran through the docking bay doors and keyed the comms channel again to no avail, vaulting up Faber’s disembarkment staircase and slamming his palm against the reader, hissing between his teeth for the doors to open quicker. He dashed straight to the locker room and opened the gun safe, pulling out the sidearm and its holster. He clipped it around his waist and pulled the gun out, padding cautiously towards the bridge. The doors parted open and he stepped onto the bridge, his gun making entrance first. He glanced around the bridge, nothing. With his gun at the ready, he strode over to the pedestal that stored Minerva’s cognition matrix, still there. He keyed the earpiece again, still nothing. He holstered the sidearm and hurried towards the disembarkment chamber. Stepping off the staircase he paused on the landing pad, he remembered that Minerva had told him to meet them at the station’s garden ring. He shrugged his shoulders and strode off the ship, towards the docking bay doors.


        The station was over five kilometers long, so in order to navigate it in a timely fashion there was a shuttle system that ran the length of the cylindrical body. Soren waited at the shuttle station outside of the docking bay and looked down the tunnel to see if a shuttle was on its way. He saw a single yellow ball of light slowly growing in the tunnel, he pulled back and waited behind a luminescent yellow line advising passengers to avoid getting close to the shuttle as it arrived. The long pearlescent white vehicle hummed into the station and hissed as it came to a stop. Soren waited to see which door would take on the most passengers and quickly strode into the back of the vessel which proved the least populated. He stood in the middle of the shuttle holding the ceiling mounted guardrail and glanced over to a map of the shuttle’s path to see how many stops he had before arriving in the garden ring. As he looked the vehicle hummed back to life, slowly gaining speed as it accelerated towards the direction it came from. 


        Soren gazed out of the shuttle’s viewing ports as they traversed the bowels of the station. They came out of the tunnel arriving in the station’s living quarters. The white, garden enveloped buildings were a mixture of housing complexes for the station’s crew and hotels and resorts for weary tourists, arranged in a neat honeycomb pattern that ran around the inside circumference of the cylinder. The shuttle glided to halt and opened its doors letting out groups of giddy tourists and weary station workers. Soren still stood in the middle of the shuttle grasping the guardrail, he breathed a sigh of relief as the population of his section of the shuttle dwindled. He meandered to the last set of seats and sat down, he again glanced up towards the shuttle route and checked his position, the next stop was his. As the shuttle passed into the hydroponics section of the station, condensation crept along the windows of the shuttle. Automated wipers appeared from the top of the window and squeaked the moisture away. Outside resembled a veritable rainforest, with trees and various crops spanning the entire section, automated irrigation rods slowly circulated above the vegetation sprinkling it with misty water. He saw agro-bots which resembled honeybees darting from plant to plant, grafting and trimming them as they went along. The shuttle slowed to a halt and a pleasant male voice spoke over the shuttle’s PA system, 
        “Hydroponics Section and Garden Ring Transit, next stop Industrial Sector,                 watch your step as you depart the shuttle.” 
Soren quickly strode off the shuttle and began following signs mounted on the ceiling reading Ring Transit followed by a directional arrow.


        He walked into a long circular hallway, to which the ends curled around the corner, past where he could see. The middle of the corridor was marked with a glowing dual red and green line, above the red line read a warning saying caution rotating section, as he looked at the red line he saw that the words were slowly moving away from him, indicating that it was the rotating section of the ring. He stepped over onto the ring section and marched towards a set of doors with the word Garden written above them. As the doors opened, he felt the wet smack of humidity wash over his face. Unlike the hydroponics section he’d seen earlier, where all the vegetation served a utilitarian purpose, the plants here were clearly meant for aesthetics, and resembled a mixture between an orchard and an arboretum that had bright red, yellow and white orchids with synthetic pollinators transiting in and out of the flowers. The doorway marked the start of a gravel path that snaked through the garden and ended encircling a giant, and no doubt imported, baobab tree with deep green vines drooping and curling from its far spanning branches. Around the garden were various avian species, from brilliantly colored songbirds to fluttering hummingbirds. Soren couldn’t help but gasp at this marvel of botanical engineering as he began walking down the path. 


        As he walked, he heard laughter and the tell tale giggle of a small child. He rounded a corner into a small glade where he saw two figures lying on the grass, a small girl and a woman. As he neared he noticed that the girl was Amelia and the woman Minerva and they were both sniggering about something Amelia had just done. Soren relieved, sauntered over to a bench near the clearing and sat down. He took his vest off and rolled his shirt sleeves up to his elbows to compensate against the humidity of the garden. Minerva propped herself up on her elbows and saw Soren who she gave a lazy wave, he returned the gesture. She stood up slowly helping Amelia up by playfully pulling her up off the grass by both arms, she pointed to an orchid to which Amelia ran off towards. Minerva turned and started walking towards Soren. He sat mouth agape and hands limp between his legs. As Minerva walked towards him she flashed him an enigmatic smile. She wore a pair of white slip-ons and fitted light blue capris, she had on a loose linen shirt that no doubt was much more comfortable and airy than Soren’s normal stuffy stationwear. She stopped on the opposite side of the path facing Soren and placed her hands on her hips in mocking triumphancy. Soren, still flabbergasted asked,                 
        “Did you… did you just pick her up?” 
Minerva glanced wryly at Amelia who was busy chasing one of the hummingbirds and trying to get past her to engorge itself on the orchid she was blocking, mused back, 
        “I guess I did.” 
Her wry grin maintained its place. Soren’s expression transformed from confusion to bemused admiration, 
        “So at least know where that deduction on my account came from.”


        Minerva walked over the path and sat next to him on the bench, 
        “Apologies for the secrecy, but you’ll be happy to know that this husk is                 more than suited for our work.” 
Soren looked at her quizzically,
        “Oh? So what are the specs?” 
Minerva listed them, 
        “The skin, or my skin, is a collagen scaffold made from a synthetic                         semiconductor material that regrows almost instantly. My muscles--” and                 she flexed her arms as she spoke “--are a complex of muscle mimicking                 actuators built onto a ceramic carbide skeleton. My brain is a miniaturized                 version of the cognition housing pedestal back on Faber of Fortune which                 I’ll need your help installing into this husk when we get back.” 
Soren whistled impressively, 
        “Promise you’ll save me till last when the synthetic uprising happens.” Soren’s face took on a grave expression, he continued, 
        “Did you find out what we’re going to do with our guest?” he said this while nodding his head in Amelia’s direction. 


        Minerva placed her elbows on her knees and let her head hang, 
        “It looks like the uncles off the grid, he was on Meridian, but that was 20                 years ago and he hasn’t been seen since then, the authorities said they can                 take her back, but the newest rotation of security just got here, and the next                 one won’t arrive for another eight months.” 
Soren rolled his eyes in exasperation, 
        “So what, we have to take her back? To where? She doesn’t have a home!” Minerva looked at him apprehensively, he snapped back, 
        “No. Out of the question. We can’t, I can’t take her in.” 
Minerva didn’t look away and he continued, 
        “Is that? Is she why you got the husk? To fulfill some fantastical surrogate                 mother role? Look at what we do Minerva! Even if I was willing to take her                 in, not only is it unethical, it's illegal. What if something happened to her? A                 rapid decompression in a room, a solar flare! Hell, what if something                         happens to us and leaves her alone on the ship?” 
Seeing that his words were having an increasingly emotional effect on Minerva he adopted a more conciliatory tone, 
        “They --” he had to stop himself from saying humans “-- She needs other                 people, this lifestyle isn’t one I’d force on anyone. Even if we were to break                 the law and take her in, think of the logistics! She’d need to be educated, to                 learn from her peers, to fail and get up again. If what she said on the last refit         station is true and she does want to become a Pathfinder, fine, but this isn’t a                 hereditary role, and I won’t be responsible for making it one.”


        Minerva said softly, 
        “She has no where else to go, and has no one else.”
 Soren didn’t relent, 
        “I’m not breaking the law Minerva, and there are plenty of places she could                 go, the least which is with us.” 
Minerva who had fixed her gaze on Amelia playing in the garden, said nothing, Soren couldn’t help but feel anger towards her at what he viewed as a blatantly irresponsible thought process. He was about to launch into another tirade when saw something he’d never seen her do, a single tear made its way from the corner of her eye and slid to the bottom of her chin, after a moment he spoke again, 
        “Your, crying.” 
Minerva quickly wiped the tear away and said, 
        “I know, perks of the new body.” She paused before speaking again “I’m not                 denying the truth of what you’re saying. But if that’s what you think, then                 what else do you think we should do.” 
Soren adjusted his gaze so he was also looking at Amelia, still chasing the hummingbird, 
        “We take her to Earth, and we giver her to an orphanage there--” Minerva cut in,
         “To be what?! Bounced in and out of a crippled foster home system? Maybe                 have the tiniest sliver of hope at being adopted by a family that isn’t involved         in the rampant crime on the planet? Believe me I’ve calculated the                         percentages and they are miserable! Or if the family aren’t at least petty                 criminals, then you’d condemn her to the slums in the barely livable                         equatorial zones? Everyone knows it’s the planet’s one percent that get to                 live in the poles. You would really do that to her?” 
Soren, still looking at Amelia, replied somberly, 
        “Minerva, my decision is final.” 


        Neither of them said anything for a while as they watched the small girl play, Amelia turned to look at both of them and beckoned for Minerva. She stood and began to walk over to the young girl. As she crossed the gravel path Soren spoke,                 “If there's nothing for her when we get to Earth, we can look around the                 system for other places.” 
Minerva stopped and turned her head so she was looking at him through the corner of her eye and said, 
        “As much as you want to, you can’t hide from the world forever.” 
Before he could say anything back, she was running around the glade with Amelia. 


Chapter 8: Odyssey


        Before they had left Eurus, Soren had made sure that Faber of Fortune was outfitted to carry three passengers instead of the usual one. Minerva had converted two of the ship’s redundant cargo bays into sleeping quarters for herself and Amelia. Although she didn’t technically need one since her cognition matrix was shared between the new husk and the ship, she’d insisted on having one installed due to Amelia frequently coming to sleep in her quarters in the middle of the night. All of this was begrudgingly approved by Soren who kept telling himself that it was temporary anyway. Soren was especially sour that the entire journey back would have to be spent recouping the monetary losses they’d taken on Eurus. Minerva’s new husk wasn’t an entire loss since it was him that initially proposed it, however, he was particularly frustrated with Minerva that she’d decided to get the husk as a way to interact more with Amelia instead of increasing his effectiveness as a Pathfinder. Their new route back towards Sol was essentially retracing the old one, so to mitigate this, Soren and Minerva plotted an adjacent route that made sure to pass through unmapped systems.   


        Since the girl was to be journeying with them for quite some time, he had set forth a series of ground rules now that they were no longer headed towards the galactic rim, and instead journeying back to Soren’s proverbial nightmare; civilization. Amelia would be tutored by Minerva in order to make up for any time she was losing being away from school, and Soren had no idea what the state of her education had been prior their fateful meeting, so he’d asked Minerva to start from the ground up. Amelia had also continued prodding him about all the intricacies of being a Pathfinder so he’d told her that he would allow her to learn just as Pathfinders do, her joy was short lived when he said that she had to do everything alone, and he was further surprised to see Minerva agreeing with him. Her logic being that if they were to indeed drop her off in some miserable orphanage on Earth, she should at least know how to take care of herself.


        Soren also made Amelia learn and memorize exactly where all of the ship’s escape pods were and how to turn the shuttle and rover into a makeshift pod if all of the other ones were not available. He taught her how to seal a bulkhead in the event of a shipborne fire, and what kind of objects to hold on to in the event that a rapid decompression risked sucking her out into space without an EVA suit. He also kept her by his side when he was at the galaxy map adjusting his routes, making sure she learned the different star classifications, constellations, which planets were worth more, how to plot routes, and various orbital mechanics that he used to aid him on his expeditions. Minerva handled her classical education covering mathematics, natural sciences, and literature.


        The ship’s bridge lights were dimmed and Soren stood amidst projected floating stars, their route was highlighted by linking a series of these stars taking the form of a jagged golden band. With his index finger he tapped the green dot blinking at the closest end of the band, indicating their current position. The dot expanded into a planetary system, the central star being a small orange sun. The system had two planets, Soren tapped the one closer to the sun and magnified its size to fill the bridge. It resembled an artisan marble, the surface was covered by a turquoise ocean with deep green blotches forming the landmasses, the atmosphere was slightly more dense in oxygen but otherwise breathable. Minerva, who was sitting in the co-pilot chair rotated to face him, whistled and quipped,                                 “Commander, I highly recommend disembarking here for a detailed surface                 expedition.” 
Soren glanced over to her and remarked wryly, 
        “For science or leisure purposes?” 
She replied, 
        “Why not both?” 
Soren collapsed the magnified view of the planet and strode over to the planet that was further away. Soren magnified the orb and grimaced at the sight. Unlike its sibling, the planet was pale white and looking around the surface he could make out hazy slowly moving blotches of white indicating massive winter storms, pockmarked around the equator were thin streaks of black soot emanating from tall gray peaks, volcanism. 


        Keeping his gaze fixed on the winter hellscape he called over to Minerva,                 “Please tell me there's nothing valuable on this planet.” 
She replied, 
        “Well the bad news is that the preliminary scans show that there is a high                 concentration of volatiles clustered around the base of the volcano systems.” Soren looked directly at her, 
        “And the good news?” 
Minerva replied matter-of-factly if not sarcastically, 
        “That the volatiles are worth a lot of money.” 
He placed his hands in his pockets and weighed the odds in his head. On one hand he had to make up the money spent on Eurus, and on the other they had a kid onboard now, 
        “Minerva, what’s the closest landing site to the volcano that can give me                 enough time to scan the deposits and not get frozen by a blizzard or covered                 in hot magma?” 
She marched over to the planetary survey station and typed furiously on the holo pad that appeared in front of the screen, after a moment a blinking green triangle appeared at the base of a periphery volcano, unlike the others this one was streaming white steam instead of black ash, Minerva spoke, 
        “This site has a high concentration of deposits, we haven’t been in system                 long enough for me to gauge the frequency of eruptions, but given how this                 one looks, it looks the least active of the system.” 
Soren nodded in approval, she continued, 
        “There's another thing, a storm is inbound towards the mountain, it's not                 large but I wouldn’t want to be stuck on the ground when it passes over.” Soren was about to speak when she interjected, 
        “Oh, and the storms are giving off a high level of electromagnetic radiation,                 so comms could get choppy as it approaches.” 
Soren looked at her as if she’d just told him they were invading hell with sticks and asked, 
        “Anything else?” 
She shook her head.


        Soren strode over to the commander's chair and keyed the ships PA “Amelia, get to the bridge, we’re going planetside.” He grabbed the control stick and adjusted Faber’s trajectory towards the iceball planet. He heard the pitter patter of running footsteps behind the bridge door and Amelia came bursting through the doors as they opened. Out of breath and face ripe with excitement, she ran up to Soren, 
        “What kind of planet?! Can I come with you?” 
He was in no mood to answer her questions, he jabbed a finger at the small chair that he had installed for her and barked, 
        “Sit down and buckle up.” 
As they closed their approach, the iceball slowly came into view and Soren pulled back on the throttle so as to not collide directly with it. The nav station’s interpretation of the planet had been generous. Instead of the ghostly white face with scattered blizzards and a few volcano systems that they’d seen earlier, before them was a mottled grey surface with a long black streak circumnavigating the entire body of the planet emanating from a massive shield volcano that must have spanned over 400 kilometers from its base. The clouds that held the blizzards gave the occasional sputter of light as lightning terrorized the surface below. Astronomically speaking the planet was young and still forming, but unlike the innocent and naive growth of a child, youth in space is borne from the violent cataclysms of interacting stellar material. 


        He heard Amelia let out a muffled gasp as she gawked at the chaos in front of them. Soren pulled the control stick back towards him and brought Faber’s bow upwards and pushed the throttle forward accelerating the ship towards the northern pole of the planet. After a few minutes he brought the throttle back to the middle of the power track halting the ship’s forward motion, he rotated the ship along its forward axis 180 degrees so they were facing the pole from above. Soren pushed the throttle forward gently. As they began to skim off the planet’s atmosphere the ship’s hull creaked and moaned. Looking out of the canopy he saw the reddish arcs of plasma spitting upwards and licking the borders of the ship's maroon trim. The shaking became more violent as they began to enter the planet’s thermosphere. Soren heard a muffled whimper from Amelia’s direction and stole a quick glance towards her, she had turned completely pale and her widened eyes were fixed on the fiery display that was atmospheric entry. Soren pulled the throttle back to its neutral position and let gravity take them the rest of the way forward. 


        After a few teeth chattering moments the shaking subsided and they careened towards the ground in free fall, Soren slammed the throttle forward and seconds later the bottom nozzles of Faber of Fortune’s VMS activated in unison lurching the ship forward into a stable atmospheric cruise. As they sailed towards the surface Soren glanced at Amelia again whose face now resembled someone’s first ride on a roller coaster. She slowly turned her head towards him and in a shocked induced dead pan asked, “Can we do that again?” Soren chuckled and guided the ship closer to the surface. They viewed the antithetical terrain, the blackened igneous rock of the volcano they were circling surrounded by a soot sprinkled winter wasteland. Soren circled the peak scanning the ground for a suitable landing area and chose an elevated plateau roughly a kilometer from the base of the volcano. He brought the ship into a hover above the landing site and gave a quick boost of the VMS thrusters to clear the area of any debris they couldn’t see. Faber of Fortune settled onto the icy plateau, the ship bracing on the suspension of the landing skids.


        Soren powered down the engine and unbuckled himself from the commander’s chair, Amelia struggled, 
        “Can I come with you? I could help with scanning!” She pleaded. 
Soren curtly replied, 
        “Rover seats one kid.” 
He turned to address Minerva, 
        “How long do we have until the storm hits us?” 
She spoke as she helped Amelia unbuckle herself from her seat, 
        “Three hours, plus or minus fifteen minutes, you’re on the clock now so I                 recommend moving now.” 
Soren didn’t need reminding, he was already halfway out the door when she finished speaking. 


Chapter 9: Gelid


        The rover whined up the ash filled snow dune, as he neared the summit of the dune Soren slowly pumped the rover’s breaks with his foot. Due to the planet’s low gravity environment Soren had to be diligent about any sudden movements that he made, lest he went flying end over end down an icy fissure. He halted the rover at the top of the dune, turning the knob controlling the onboard mineral scanner to its maximum setting. Based on what they’d scanned from orbit the volcano was littered with high density platinum deposits, but due to the composition of the mountain being primarily iron, the scanner needed to be calibrated in order to cut through the noise created by the unwanted metal. This would have been fine had it not severely reduced the scanning radius[af], which forced Soren to make tedious incremental rotations of the rover to scan the area in front of him. Everytime he turned the rover the scanner sent out a pulse and when it struck a deposit it would emit a chiming sound and he would navigate the rover towards the deposit to verify and drop a marker. 


        He repeated the process up the slope of the volcano, the grin inside his space suit growing each time he placed a marker; more markers, more money. As he drove he called over the comm, 
        “Double check naming rights for the planet, I’ve got a good one.” 
Minerva called back, 
        “You're all set, what's the name?” Soren smiled mischievously “Giled.” There was a pause and Minerva’s voice crackled back sardonically, 
        “Seriously? You want to name a planet “cold?” Its temperature?” 
Soren corrected her, 
        “It means very cold actually.” 
He cackled as he heard her scoff before signing off. After some time her voice came over the comm in his helmet,
        “Soren range check, your pushing 3 clicks from the ship and the storms                 closing in fast. You’ve got roughly thirty minutes to make it back.” 
He turned the rover to face the plateau where Faber of Fortune was parked and swore. Thirty minutes was generous, his ship was by no means small but against the backdrop of a roiling snow wall spanning the horizon, it might have well been a grain of rice. He turned the rover and scanned the slope for any fissures or crevices. He opened a channel to Faber,
        “Minerva, take off.” 
She snapped back, 
        “What?!” 
He replied back calmly, 
        “Take off, I’m not risking the ship in that storm, you can circle back when                 the storms over, I’ve been in worse.” 
He was lying, he hadn’t, but he might as well try and reassure himself. The comm began to crackle as Minerva tried to reach him, he cut off whatever the message was and shot back “Take off now, I’m not risking it, circle back when the storm passes.” He shut the comms channel off completely and maneuvered the rover towards a jagged opening in the mountain. He pulled up to the entrance and keyed the rover's external lights to illuminate the long tunnel in front of him. He glanced one more time outside the rover’s rear viewing port and saw Faber of Fortune lift off right as the snow wall was about to consume it, the ship rocketed past him and circled over the storm disappearing behind it.


        He inched the rover deeper into the tunnel and altered his gaze towards the rover's control dashboard to avoid the growing claustrophobic feeling creeping into his mind. Once he was far enough into the tunnel he halted the rover and turned the external lights off, he looked behind him through the viewing port as snow began to envelope the entrance that he’d just come from. As the last sliver of light from the entrance faded away he turned back into the cockpit and found himself shrouded in pitch black. He fumbled for the knob to turn on his helmet mounted lights. He checked his suits and the rover’s oxygen capacity, roughly eight hours. Reclining into his seat, he turned the lights back off to conserve power, and waited.


        After what he perceived as an eternity he looked at his suit's wrist mounted timepiece, only an hour had passed. He turned the rovers rear facing external lights and reversed to where the snow had stopped. He grabbed the extraction tool; or E-tool, mounted behind his seat. Before he cracked the hatch open he checked the external temperature: -137 degrees celsius. He’d have to move fast, his suit's internal heating supply only worked for thirty minutes before it shut off completely, so he knew he would have to make several trips to the rover. He braced himself against the door and turned the handle opening the hatch. He scrambled out of the cockpit feet first, but in the darkness he didn’t see the ice directly under the hatch, his feet hit the ground and he slipped on the surface face planting directly onto the ground. The force of the fall slammed his face onto the front of his helmet breaking his nose and cracking the helmet glass. He let out a pitiful groan as he tried to lift himself off of the icy surface only to crash back down to the ground. His hands fumbled for purchase and found the studded wheel of the rover. He heaved himself up grabbing the knobbed wheel and leaning his head back trying to keep his bleeding nose from pouring any more obstructing blood onto the splattered glass. Soren pulled himself back into the cockpit and leaned over to reseal the hatch. Desperately trying to ignore his suits breach alarm and the hiss of oxygen leaking out of his helmet, his hands felt across the cockpit dashboard to find the atmospheric equalization button, once he thought his fingers found the right place he moved the only transparent part of his helmet and peered out of it to confirm it was the right one. He pushed the button and pushed his head back while he waited for the atmospheric stability chime to sound.


        Once the tune sounded he furiously unclipped the helmet fasteners and threw the helmet across the cabin, spilling the stored blood along the front of his space suit. He toggled the cabin lights and yanked the first kit mounted next to him. He cracked open the kit spilling its contents on the cabin floor, cursing he fumbled around the spilt medical supplies and picked up two rolls of gauze. He unrolled one, and forgetting his nose was broken smacked it onto his bleeding nose causing him howl in pain. He kept the gauze on his nose and while he waited for the bleeding to subside and began chuckling. The chuckle turned into full blown laughter and he began punching the cabin wall as he heaved. It wasn’t the happy laughter after a knee slapping joke, it was the kind of laughter that follows a chain of events that couldn't; theoretically, get any worse. Once his macabre fit had run its course, he pulled the bloodied bandage from his nose, and split the other gauze roll into two pieces shoving them into his nostrils. He pulled the spare helmet attached to the cabin wall behind him and pulled it over his head. He restarted the rover exiting process, being significantly more mindful of ice and all its disadvantages. 


        He exited the rover and grasped the studded rover tire as he slowly let himself onto the ground. Once he was sure of his stability he walked towards the snow sealed exit and began digging with the E-tool. He made the journey from the rover to his tunnel four times to recharge his internal heating system. As he dug he looked at the packed snow in front of him and saw it gleam with light from the other side. He frantically shoveled away the snow in front of him and when the last stroke to break the barrier between his tunnel and the outside struck, a howling gale launched him backwards through the tunnel like a projectile and slammed him against the rear of the rover. He shuffled out of the way of the blowing wind and propped himself up, heaving against the rear wheel of the rover. He glanced at the gaping hole and let another wave of grim laughter roll over him. When his fit had subsided he crawled back into the rover’s cabin.


        Soren leaned the chair back and checked his oxygen levels, a little less than four hours left. He unlatched his helmet and let it tumble to the deck, he ran a bloodied glove through his hair and gave a deep defeated exhale. He set a timer for an hour on his timepiece, pulled a bottle of painkillers from the floor and plopped two pills into his mouth, and wondered how comfortable Faber was right now. While he waited he cursed the money driven stupidity that had gotten him into this mess in the first place. He thought about what Minerva had said to him on Eurus station, about running away from the world. He hadn’t really thought about why he became a Pathfinder in the first place, but if he looked at objectively he was running away from the world, and being a Pathfinder was the serendipitous moment he’d been waiting for all his life. 


        Soren’s upbringing was by no means hard, while he didn’t have butler-bots waiting on his hand and foot, nor did he have to scrape the bottom of the barrel just to get by. Both his parents worked for the Imperial Diplomatic Corps, traveling from world to world convincing the smaller factions of the local bubble why joining the Imperium was a good idea. Just like his parents he bounced from school to school right up until he joined the Imperial Marine Corps. Whatever group of friends he’d quickly made in one world, he’d soon find himself saying goodbye to them and returning to his perennial position of fly on the wall at whatever new school he found himself in. He’d become adept at creating a mask of social and charismatic magnetism, arriving at a new home and seeking the relationships that he wanted, the perfect envoy. But on the inside he steeled himself, convincing himself that people, places, and relationships, were transient. He began to view people and their interactions through the same lens as a person viewing a museum exhibit; with interest but there were more exhibits to see. He grew distant from his own family, practicing a rehearsed and guilt ridden show of affection anytime he saw them. 


        These feelings culminated while Soren was studying at the Galactic Institute, his brother was killed in a car accident. He had gotten off of the vid-call in the early morning with his father who had told him that his brother was dying in the hospital, and he didn’t have long. He’d sat on his bed, and went to sleep. He woke up the next morning and went to workout at his gym, socializing and keeping generally upbeat with the gym’s patrons. He’d arrived at the Olympus Spaceport to catch the starship that would take him to his home town in the northern district of Isidis Planitia for the funeral. He sat at the gate, numb. His mind was racing, why wasn’t he feeling ...  something? He consoled himself by telling himself it was just shock. He boarded the starship and took his place among the passengers, his mind was now fixated on what he was supposed to say, how he was supposed to act. He dreaded the thought of his family thinking he was some kind of psychopath, unable to react to even the most severe of emotional trauma. He arrived at the Isidis Spaceport to see his father at the reception gate. His father’s figure was limp, standing as if he had an invisible puppeteer holding his strings up, he looked at his glazed over eyes surrounded by the darkened rings of someone who had been awake all night in a hospital. He gave Soren a mournful smile and hugged him. They headed to the hospital to say the final goodbye to his brother and take him off life support. 


        During the ride there, Soren heard the distant sound of his father detailing what had happened; he was drunk, he’d been launched from the vehicle and hit his head. He dreaded walking into the hospital room, not just because he had to look at his brother, but his family would see him, they would see that his eyes were dry, that they didn’t bear the red swelling of someone who’d spent the night sobbing uncontrollably. They walked into the intensive care unit room, his brother’s bed surrounded by a surgeon's green curtain, he knew they had told his family that it was for privacy, but his time in the Marine had told him that it was because the patient was in no condition to view. His father gave him a vacant stare as he asked Soren if he was ready. He pulled the curtain back. His brother’s swollen body was swathed in blood stained bandages covering the myriad of broken bokens in all limbs, his chest was punctured by tubes draining excess fluid that his body had created during the frantic surgery to try and save his life. Soren moved his gaze to his head. On one side a softly placed bandage had been placed to cover the gruesome head wound that ended him. Soren absorbed this sight, looking at the plethora of devices vainly displaying the lifesigns of a man who had long since left his mortal coil. 


        Soren still felt nothing. He glanced around the room at his grief stricken family, his sister heaving uncontrollably in a chair in the corner of the room, his father who stared vacantly at his battered son, and his mother who refused to even enter the room. Soren talked to the doctors and nurses and thanked them for doing what they could. His brother was an organ donor, so when the terminal task of switching off the machines that were keeping him alive began, the cascading finality of time couldn’t have better been described. It was when they wheeled his brother’s body back into the room for organ harvesting did Soren finally join in the collective display of sorrow. He sobbed in part because his brother was gone, but also in relief that he hadn’t completely purged all emotion from his body. Soren left the funeral in shame, he felt irreconcilable guilt that this is what it took for him to care, to feel, to empathise. He viewed himself as a monster, and had unknowingly set himself on a path to exile when he joined the Pathfinders a year later. 


        The timepiece went off at the hour mark. Soren toggled the alarm off, and looked to see if the gaping hole behind him was still blowing snow flurries past the rover’s canopy, the air was still. He checked the viewing port behind him and saw that the gales had subsided. He pulled the rover’s data core from its socket beneath his seat and tucked into one of the bloodstained pouches on his spacesuit. He looked into the rover’s rearview mirror examining the two gauze rolls stuffed into his nose with the blood now crusted over. He patted himself down in a final equipment check and turned the handle to open the hatch. Just as before he gingerly stepped down off the rover and slowly made his way to the tunnel he’d dug. He straddled the side of it taking care not to fall in just yet, he packed some snow together into a ball and threw into the middle of the tunnel hoping it wouldn’t get launched straight into the back of the rover just like he did earlier. When it fell stationary he hopped into the tunnel and crawled to the entrance that had thankfully been enlarged by the wind. He paused at the threshold and threw another snowball out for good measure, when that one fell stagnant as well he crawled out into the waning sunlight and opened a comms channel to the ship,
        “Faber of Fortune, this is Soren, how copy?” 
Static. He let yet another fit of misery induced laughter combined with his ridiculously nasally voice roll over him, he began to walk down towards the base of the volcano repeating the message, he checked his oxygen levels; three hours. He saw the plateau where Faber of Fortune had first landed and estimated the range at around two and half kilometers[ag]. He trudged toward it, thinking that if he was going to die here he might as well make finding his body easy. 


        Around the thirtieth repeat of the message he stopped when he heard a crackle in his earpiece. He stopped and spoke into the mouthpiece, 
        “Say again? Coming in broken and unreadable.” 
He picked up his pace to the plateau which was roughly a kilometer away the earpiece crackled again, 
        “Sor- stat- -rent po- -tion.” 
Breaking all radio etiquette he screamed, “What?” into the mouthpiece. 
As if he had summoned the gods of radio reception the Minerva’s voice came in crystal clear, 
        “Soren, state your current position.” 
He relayed his coordinates and advised her to land the plateau, she worriedly spat back at him, 
        “Soren you need to start running, the volcano is not dormant, I repeat the volcano is not dormant.” 
He groaned in exasperation and began rushing towards the plateau. Three hundred meters out he felt the ground rumble below his feet as they plodded through newly laid pack snow. He looked over his shoulder as he ran and saw Faber of Fortune scream over him and swing around over the plateau with the emergency ramp extended. He reached the base of the plateau and used the barbed edges of the E-tool to haul himself up the steep slope, he clambered up the crest of the ledge and stole a quick glance at the cave where he’d left the rover and saw a spout of magma spit out a sparking melted hulk. He ran towards the ramp just as the ground beneath his feet began to crumble and grappled up the ramp's extended handholds and threw himself into the open bay doors. 


        As he lay on the deck gripping the handholds he felt the ship accelerate from the volcano towards the sky. After a few moments he felt the ship decelerate, and the chamber repressurize, no doubt into a stable cruise above any potential storms. Minerva’s voice broke over the PA system, 
        “Soren are you alright?!” 
He stood and collected himself, he unfastened his helmet and let it clamber to the deck. Standing up he barked, 
        “Yeah, thanks for coming back for me.” 
He hobbled to the second set of doors, kicking his helmet  into the decon chamber and let his utility belt clank to the floor. The alarm chimed and Minerva was standing at the door and she grimaced as she saw him. He gave her a wry grin and held the data core in front of him. She chuckled and squeezed his shoulder,                         “Welcome back, almost thought I’d have to submit your thumbprint.” 
As they turned and headed into the locker room, Amelia brushed past Minerva and lunged from the bench clasping her arms around Soren’s neck. Surprised he slowly brought his arms around her, setting her down after a moment. Amelia wiped her eyes and mumbled, 
        “I don’t want to lose you too.” 
Soren looked up at Minerva and chuckled, 
        “How about a vacation?”


Chapter 10: [ah]Keira’s Moon


        Soren winced as Minerva lightly grasped his broken nose. She cautioned him, 
        “The only way you’re going to breathe right again is if I set it properly.” 
He was sitting on the Med Bay’s examination table with both his hands gripping the edge of the table so tight, his knuckles were white. Minerva started a count down and Soren took a deep breath, 
        “Three… ” 
        She never got to one, and had cracked his nose back into place after he exhaled. Soren howled in pain, cursing at her for lying to him and spitting out excuses for why he wasn’t ready yet. She gave him a pat on the shoulder and said,                 “Could have been worse, without this husk you’d have been breaking your own nose.” 
Soren whimpered back, 
        “Yeah well, I would have waited till three at least.” 
He tried to touch his re-broken nose only to have Minerva smack his hand away from the swollen feature. She slapped the latex gloves off her hands and threw them into the disposal bin she had propped open with her foot. 


        Amelia who had been sitting in a seat at the front of the examination table piped up, 
        “Why didn’t you put those spiky foot things on? You told me they were in                 the back of the rover.” 
Soren corrected her,
        “You mean crampons?” 
Amelia continued, 
        “Yeah crap-ons, you wouldn't have slipped with those on.” 
Minerva taking Amelia’s side jumped into the fray, 
        “Yeah, Soren pretty sure when we were in the store you even held them up in front of me saying: ‘You never know when you might need these!’”
Soren crossed his arms and said, 
        “I never said such a thing.” 
Forgetting Minerva still controlled the projection strips, a hologram appeared in the room of him repeating his exact words holding a pair of crampons between his head. Soren shouted, 
        “What was I supposed to do!” 
Instead of a reply however, Amelia began roaring with laughter, Soren confused asked,
        “What’s wrong? What did I say?” 
Minerva who was trying very hard to stifle her own laughter briefly said, 
        “Your voice it's still pretty … nasally” 
He realized this and doubled down on Amelia, saying any random assortment of words causing her to wheeze and howl with laughter. Her own cackling soon became contagious and the whole room was howling. 


        They all walked out of the room wiping hilarity induced tears from their eyes, Minerva scooped up Amelia who yawned in between remnant chuckles. Minerva nodded towards her room signaling that she was taking Amelia to bed, he returned the gesture with a nod towards the living room. He strolled through the parting doors and meandered to the bar to pour himself a glass of bourbon. He hefted the bottle in his hand, inspecting its waning contents and made a mental note to replenish the bottle when they arrived at the next refit station. He poured a glass; neat this time, and walked to the couch to inspect the frigid landscape of Gelid, after their daring escape Minerva had pulled the ship into a low orbit of the planet. The panorama that filled the viewing ports in front of him showed the volcano that he’d just escaped from spewing black lightning filled smoke, with tendrils of radiant orange lava rivers spewing down the mountain. He felt a small pang of remorse as he thought about his trusty rover; which was most likely metal slag by this point, unceremoniously spat out of the cave he took shelter in.


        The living room doors hissed open and Minerva ambled in, she moseyed up to the bar and pulled out one of the magnetic bar stools located under the table top. She sat facing the same viewing ports Soren was admiring, leaning back and resting her elbows on the table, 
        “So regarding that vacation, there's still the tropical planet in the system if you’re feeling up to it?”
        “I’ll be quite honest I have no desire to land another planet for a while.                 Unless the whole thing is made of Beryllium I’m perfectly happy with                 planetary scans.” Soren scoffed wryly.
Minerva chuckled and moved to sit on the opposite side of the couch,
        “Well that I can’t promise.” she said.


        Soren looked down at his glass and swirled the contents around, he’d been ruminating about what she’d said to him on Eurus station, about running away from the world. His mother had said the same thing to him, after three consecutive expeditions; almost two years from home. She’d asked him why head was so set on spending so much time away from them, and what he was running away from. The truth was he didn’t know. For most of his life Soren had been an outsider, and arguably it had been his doing, that was how he coped. He’d learned as a child that people, attachments, relationships, they were all temporary. He liked the frontier, and not just the figurative one. As Melville said “I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas” he couldn’t do that with constant connection to society. He turned to Minerva who had put her feet up on the couch and was straddling the couch with an elbow, scrutinizing Gelid’s marred surface,
        “You said I was running away, back on Eurus station.” he said, still swirling his glass. She didn’t alter her gaze but acknowledged him with a hum, he continued,
        “I love being out here, and I won’t lie the lack of people makes it great, but for me being out here” --he rubbed his fingertips together trying to find the right words-- “it allows me to see and feel some kind meaning to it all.”  Minerva turned her head to look at him,
        “To it all?” she said.
        “Yeah, I guess ‘Commune with the Cosmos’ would be a fancy way of putting it, but out here I feel that everything I do matters in some way. Whereas back home, or back in the bubble, whatever I do no matter how difficult it was, feels like a drop of water in an ocean.” Minerva kept her gaze on him,
        “So why does taking Amelia in frighten you so much?” she said curtly. Soren paused taking a sip from his glass, he turned his head towards Giled, 
        “Because she could end it all.”


        They both sat in silence for a moment, the ash from the volcano on Giled billowed into the atmosphere, adding a second darker streak to the one already present. Minerva broke the silence,
        “I think the way you define what matters is a bit self centered, like, if it doesn't do something outside of society then it's irrelevant to you.” 
        “What's wrong with that? Isn’t our goal out here to expand our knowledge of the Cosmos?”
        “It is, but what matters in the universe doesn’t always have to be big and grand, it often starts with something very small.” 
        “Ok, so what does Amelia have to do with that?”
Minerva sighed and rubbed the bridge of her nose with her fingers,
        “You have no idea what she could be[ai], but you have such an opportunity to influence that, she could create a new way to travel through tachyon space, or unite the local bubble, or… become the greatest Pathfinder, what I’m saying is she could be something great and what you teach her or show her matters in determining that.”
Soren nodded his head in thought, after a moment he looked back at Minerva and gave her a knowing smile. They sat there a while longer before Soren retired to his bedchamber.


        Soren strode into the bridge, still wearing his pajamas and lazily holding an aluminium mug of instant coffee. He strode past Minerva who was busy typing into the datapad perched on top of the nav station. He slowly fell into the command chair and took a cautious sip from his mug to avoid burning his mouth. He rotated the command chair to face the canopy which was displaying Gelid’s sun peaking through the atmosphere of the nightside of the planet and crossed his feet on the dashboard. He sipped the coffee again and called out to Minerva, 
        “Something interesting coming up on the route? You're really hammering that keyboard.”
        “Signal coming from the next system, I’ve been cross checking it all morning since it’s pretty faint, but from what I can extrapolate it looks to be a distress signal from-” Soren rolled his eyes and whined,
        “Oh for pete’s sake can we-” she interrupted him,
        “From another Pathfinder.”
He almost spat out his coffee as he quickly rotated the chair back to face her. 
        “How old?”
        “Old, looks like it's been broadcasting for over two months.”
Soren turned back to face the dashboard and keyed the ship’s PA system summoning Amelia to the bridge. Moments later she rambled through the doors, rubbing the sleep from her eyes. Soren hurriedly motioned for her to take her seat as he pulled Faber of Fortune away from Gelid and aligned the ship's bow with the system Minerva had placed on his HUD. He toggled the jump drive as Minerva sprinted to her seat in the co-pilot's chair and buckled up. 


        As they screamed out of the reconciliation gate Soren unbuckled his and ran over to the Nav station, as he opened the system’s projection onto the bridge Amelia nervously glanced around the room as she unbuckled herself,
        “Why are we rushing to this system?” she said hesitantly.
Soren, standing behind a holographic red dwarf replied,
        “Distress call.”
Amelia groaned and rolled her eyes, Minerva gawked at the reaction, and Soren slowly peeked out from behind the sun,
        “Under different circumstances, I’d be proud of you kid, but this is from another pathfinder.” he said wryly.
Amelia immediately blushed and stole a glance at Minerva who was still looking at her in disappointment. Soren rushed over to the sun’s single orbiting planet where the signal was originating. It was a small grey body, marked by various impact craters blanketing the desolate surface. The planet was tidally locked meaning one face of the planet was perpetually facing the sun and the other shrouded in endless night. Soren magnified the planet to fill the room,
        “Minerva, can you triangulate the signal for me, all I’m getting is garbage.”
She marched over to the comms station and began typing furiously on the extended datapad. After a moment she looked over Soren,
        “I’ve patched it up, looks like an audio message” -she quickly glanced at Amelia- “use the headset.” 


        Soren strode next her and pulled the headset from the station and pulled it over his ears and listened,


        This is KD-2113… calling any … need immediate … I’m losing, losing … don’t know how


        Placing the headset back on its mount he grimaced and frowned gravely at Minerva. He moved back to the command chair and aligned the ship towards the signal source at the median between the light and dark faces of the planet. As they neared the surface Amelia strained to examine the mottled ground growing closer she asked Soren,
        “Why is the flying so smooth? It wasn’t like this on the last planet you got left on?” He grinned dryly and replied,
        “This planet doesn’t have an atmosphere, it was stripped away by its sun long ago.”
        She asked him why that was the case, and he started to explain before surrendering to Minerva who provided a more comprehensive explanation of why the inside of a planet has to be active to provide a magnetosphere to shield its atmosphere. A few hundred meters from the surface, Soren beheld a long prominent scar on the surface, it couldn’t have been a meteorite due to them leaving their trademark circular impact craters. As they neared the end of the scar he noticed a yellowish hue emanating from the terminus. He brought Faber down to hundred meters from the ground and hovered over the point toggling the ship's external lights. Nestled in the rock was the badly damaged hull of a yellow and black ship, it was the standard issue Pathfinder vessel. 


        Soren gave a quiet tsk, tsk. While it wasn’t completely certain, the fact that the vessel was standard issue meant that the Pathfinder was either a rookie, or very frugal[aj]. He set Faber of Fortune down thirty meters from the vessel, he didn’t have a rover anymore so he’d have to examine the hulk on foot. As he suited up in the locker room he made sure to bring all the extraction and hull cutting tools that he could fit on his belt. He didn’t have high hopes regarding the Pathfinder’s survival, but given his stunt on Giled, he was willing to give any pilot the benefit of the doubt. He loped down the disembarkment staircase onto the surface of the planet. Due to the low gravity of the planet he quickly covered the distance to the vessel in a series of bounds across the dusty plain. He bounced to the edge of the crash site and peered at the vessel. He sighed heavily as he found the canopy. The cockpits for standard issue Pathfinder ships have an enveloping canopy, in order to provide maximum visibility for the pilot, are covered in a large reinforced glass bubble. The glass can withstand direct hits from micro-meteorites, it can’t however, withstand direct collisions with planets. This was made evidently clear as Soren shined his helmet light down into the vessel’s shattered canopy. He strode closer to the broken shell of glass and his light passed over a figure hunched over the ship’s dashboard. He pulled a cutting tool from his utility belt and sawed a long rod of metal from the ship’s frame. He returned to the figure and prodded it, causing him to stumble back in fright. Before him lay the semi-mummified remains of the Pathfinder. The pale white skin on her face had sunk in enough to outline her skull along with what remained of her hair, her eyes resembled white marbles, staring vacantly at him. Soren pulled the E-tool from his belt and began digging in front of the destroyed hulk. 


        When he finished the makeshift grave, he strode back over to the broken canopy and pulled its doomed occupant out, being as delicate as he could, he laid her into the shallow grave. He stood for a moment looking at the corpse before turning around and striding towards her ship. He vaulted over the dashboard through the open canopy and walked through the ship’s small bridge scanning around the deck before settling his gaze on a magnetic bulletin board. There were two white squares stuck onto the board, he pulled one of them off scrutinizing it. It was clearly a photograph, however after basking in the star’s radiation for some time it had been bleached white, he flipped the square over in his hand revealing a handwritten message on the opposite side,
        Good luck sis! Proud of you!
        He undid a small button on the side of his utility belt that unfolded a pouch on the side of his utility belt and placed the photograph in it. He pulled the other bleached photograph off the board flipping it over revealing another message of support from an unknown well wisher, before placing it in the pouch as well. He strode towards the aft section of the bridge and pried the malfunctioning doors open with his hands and lodged them into an open position with a thrusting kick. He peered around the disheveled corridor, littered with the various scattered accoutrements of this pathfinder’s last expedition; mineral probes, soil canisters, medical supplies, and a tool chest that had been thrown open by the crash. Soren stepped through the mess and scanned the hallway for any other personal indicators. 


        He reached a room at the end of the hallway that had been sealed shut. He guessed it might be the Pathfinder’s sleeping quarters since it, and the bridge, are the only compartments on a ship that become hermetically sealed in the event of an emergency, allowing a pathfinder to wait for a rescue ship, or prolong a forlorn hope. He pulled the cutting torch from his belt and melted through the thick alloy of the door’s locking mechanism. When the locked disengaged, he felt a muffled hissing noise leak through the doors and the room lost its seal. He pulled a retractable crowbar from his belt and lodged one end in between the door seals. Stepping to the side of the door he yanked hard on the bar causing the remaining air in the room to silently blast into the corridor, scattering the existing debris, and adding more from the room, once everything had settled, he stepped into the bedchamber. Even though he didn’t know who this Pathfinder was, he saw from the way she decorated her room that her taste could be best described as severe. The walls were plastered with a royal yellow coating, and adorned with holoframes of various vistas that no doubt she had taken during her travels. As he examined the room, resting on a nightstand near the unmade bed, his helmet light caught the shine of a jewelry box that had survived the torrent of air escaping the room. He stepped over some loose clothing and a toppled drawer to the stand. Among the various necklaces in the box, he noticed one with a set of dog tags on it. He pulled the silver beaded chain from inside and placed one of the tags into the beam of his helmet light,


        Douglas, Keira M.


        He yanked one of the dog tags off the chain and placed it into a pouch on his chest, he’d need it to provide proof of the Pathfinder’s demise when he returned to the local bubble. Placing the chain with the remaining dog tag into the pouch with the photos, he glanced up to a wall on the opposite side of the bed where he was standing. Before him was a mass of old paper photos, taken with one of the archaic cameras that spat out a paper square that had to be flapped up and down for a moment before the photo developed. He stepped around the bed to examine the anthology before him, the room untouched by the external radiation of the outside had left the images in the same condition as they were when the crash happened. He panned his helmet light across the pictures providing him with a glimpse of who Keira was before he buried her. A picture with a group friends in front of the Pathfinder academy; no doubt her graduation, two graying men in a forest copse embracing her as they flashed radiant grins towards the camera; her parents maybe, and an intimate kiss in a docking bay with a tall dark man who wore a vest emblazoned with the Pathfinder insignia. Soren spent a few moments scrutinizing the remaining captures before picking them off the wall individually and placing them into the large pouch on his side. Once the wall was bare he turned on his heel to exit the ship.


        He lept deftly out of the shattered canopy and sauntered over to Keira’s open grave. He knelt into the shallow pit that he’d dug for her and placed the photos on her chest, crossing her hands over the images and closing her glazed white eyes with a gentle sweep of his hand. He stood and pulled a reflective emergency blanket from a pouch on his thigh and placed the makeshift shroud over her, tucking the edges of the planet around her body until the blanket resembled her resting outline. Grabbing the E-tool that he’d stuck in the dirt near the grave he began shoveling the chalky dust back into the grave. When the hole was filled in completely he wandered around the crash site picking up small porous stones and placed them around the perimeter of the grave. He walked over to one of the gnarled wing sublets of her ship and noticed a name stenciled on it: Boundless, using his cutting torch he melted off a small rectangular section of the wing and carved her name with his survival knife into the metal. He strode back to the makeshift tomb and placed the marker at her head, wreathing the chain with the remaining dog tag over its face. 


        He stood facing Keira’s tomb, he opened a comm channel to Faber of Fortune,
        “All set down here, she’s got a good view. I’m going to start pulling her ship’s data recorder out so we can submit it to the archive.”
Minerva acknowledged him with two squelches and after a moment reappeared on the comm,
        “Just a thought, but I think it’d be good for Amelia to see this[ak][al][am], really give her a more ‘holistic’ understanding of Pathfinders, not just you getting lost on ice worlds and skulking around the ship in sweats and slippers.” she said jokingly.
        “I actually agree with you, god knows it’d be good to give her a different perspective other than my daring adventures and casual ship attire.” Soren corrected. Soren walked over to a small mound in front of the grave and sat down on his haunches. He peered at the two figures walking down the disembarkment stairs toward him. Minerva’s space suit, gilded shoulder and thigh pads laid over a form fitting white undersuit was a picture of opulence, and though she didn’t technically need a space suit, she’d insisted on using it to acclimate Soren to her new husk when she accompanied on planetary expeditions. Amelia’s suit on the other hand was still the bright red EVA suit they had found her in. It’s cylindrical helmet fused to the rest of the suit and bright white boots and gloves resembled a miniature metal worker bumbling down the staircase. 


        Soren saw as Minerva prepared Amelia to make the quick bounds over to the crash site and couldn’t help rolling with laughter as Minerva leapt into the air dragging a flailing Amelia behind her. After three short bounds they arrived in front of Soren collected himself and stood patting the dirt off of his space suit. They strode over to Keira’s grave and stood back as Amelia waddled to the metal headstone Soren had made. She struggled to get on her knees as she examined the grave and tried to turn her head to address Soren but was hindered by her clumsy suit. She gave up the effort and faced the grave,
        “Did you know her?” Amelia asked inquisitively.
        “I didn’t. She’d just become a Pathfinder, this was her first expedition… and last one, sadly.” He replied somberly.
        “How come she crashed?” Amelia inquired again.
Minerva replied instead,
        “We don’t know yet, but we’ll find out when we look at her flight recorder.”
        “Are you going to tell her family?” Amelia asked after a moment's pause.
Soren and Minerva both paused and glanced at each other, before Soren finally spoke,
        “We won’t, but the Pathfinder Corps will send one of us to tell them.”
Amelia said nothing for a moment before leaning over and placing a gloved hand in the grave, leaving a tiny imprint on the mounds surface, she stood and looked at them, 
        “When they come they’ll know someone was with her.” Amelia said in hopeful solidarity,
        “When who comes?” Minerva asked her.
        “Her parents.” Amelia replied back.


        After a moment of quiet reflection Minerva walked over to the side of the grave and placed her hand print next to Amelia’s. Soren smiled wistfully[an] at Amelia and joined them at the grave adding his hand print to the collection. Amelia looked down at the prints and nodded in approval before turning towards one of hills on the horizon. She glanced at Minerva flashing a devilish smile before bounding away towards the hill, cackling childishly as Minerva lept after her yelling at her to slow down. Soren smiled at them both and leapt after them, catching up to Amelia and grabbing her hand, helping her evade Minerva’s parental clutches. They hurtled around Faber of Fortune erupting in laughter as Minerva gave up crossing her arms in exasperation and no doubt scowling from behind her visor. Soren and Amelia made a few more bounds around the ship before tumbling down one of the hills, reeling with laughter. Amelia crawled over to Soren who was on his back gazing at the stars, she flipped over on her back and joined him in stargazing. As Soren looked at the stars he saw Minerva’s helmet appear out of the corner of his eye. She was scowling at him, he looked at her and shrugged. Minerva’s scowl relented and gave way to a wry smile before she fell over on her back next to him. 
        “Amelia, this moon has no name, any thoughts on what to call it?” Soren asked.         The young girl crossed her hands on her chest plate and pondered, after a moment she said,
        “Yeah, let's call it Keira’s Moon.”
        Soren glanced over at Amelia, whose eyes were now glued with wonder to the stars above,                 
        “You’re alright kid.” he said as he playfully patted her helmet.
She looked at him and smiled affectionately, before facing the stars again.  


Chapter 11: Abyss


        It's very easy to get lost in space, and while it may seem obvious, of the many things Soren didn’t take for granted during his tenure as a Pathfinder, getting lost wasn’t one of them. Instead of understanding and mitigating this very common hazard, Soren was congratulating himself on making record time back to the bubble, with only four thousand light years to go before they arrived at the margins of the local bubble his mind was on his next expedition. He’d find a new home for Amelia, some place that Minerva would agree with of course, and refit for his next outing into the void. 
        
        The bridge was placid, Soren was slouched in the commander’s seat lazily fingering the control stick navigating the ship towards their current systems stellar bodies and scanning them individually, Minerva was seated next to him in the copilot’s seat observing Amelia amble around the bridge tracing and naming the constellations through a projected galaxy. As he    
                        


           
[a]1. Variation in dialogue tags
2. Create glossary of terms
[b]am interested in the world of the pathfinder and you have begun describing it - could be a rich field for further examination. Is there an origin pathfinder philosopher? Battle schools of pathfinder thought? What was Pathfinder School like?
[c]I've been thinking about that, the default I have is explaining that world as he travels. Less as "flashbacks" and more of: he runs into a situation that reminds him of the Pathfinders as an organization. But thats subject to change
[d]makes sense
[e]one idea for your 'quest' might also be to rescue a lost/stranded Pathfinder. Because the brotherhood is important. And Soren has to be a detective and figure where the lost one is, and why, etc etc. Like a DAI side quest, lol.
[f]That is in the pipeline ;)
[g]great!
[h]also, what about a mentor for Soren? Some grizzly senior Pathfinder who was a bit eccentric, but a great achiever. Could be dead now, could be alive now.
[i]I thought about that at first, but I've committed to the idea of building one (at most two) personas, and if this ends up being good, then establishing Soren as that "grizzled veteran"
[j]got it xx
[k]fix, irrelevant
[l]is there a story here? how does someone afford this technology? a loan from the pathfinder's guild, sold his birthright, loan from parents...? is he still paying it off?
[m]Fixed
[n]yes - how old is he, have wondered that...?
[o]fixed
[p]fix
[q]how many pathfinders are there? what is overall human population? this makes them seem pretty numerous.
[r]The population of humanity is listed in the second chapter
[s]so i read three pathfinder motivations: 1. Be alone 2. Earn money 3. See beautiful things. 


no-one has the urge to explorer the unknown, or to push the boundaries of knowledge?
[t]speaking of earning money, he could have a profitable side hustle as a space photographer? he could do it anonymously.
[u]for two years of expensive training? seems a bit short
[v]Yeah gonna extend this
[w]Fixed
[x]wow interesting. are you going to go for it?
[y]We'll see
[z]come up with made up top shelf name
[aa]More detail on husk process
[ab]this sounds like a combination of 'sputum' and 'scrotum'...
[ac]All of the names are actual places in the galaxy, blame astronomers lol
[ad]lol! did you get my whatsapp message with additional comments?
[ae]ha ha - doomed doomed doomed
[af]fix
[ag]check initial range
[ah]Add what happened to her AI
[ai]good passage about Amelia and her potential to change this and other stories
[aj]am interested already in the pathfinder's story
[ak]random thought: why not have Amelia join him at the start and watch how he goes through the ship etc? It's a great description and having her along would give Soren a sense of new eyes watching his existing patterns and beliefs.
[al]I thought about that, but pragmatically speaking I wouldn't want to bring a child onto an unknown surface and expose them to the sight of a dead pathfinder (given that she's already emotionally scarred)
[am]make sense
[an]check usage